# [070990](https://.../courier/070990engo.pdf) 0

## [Page 1](https://.../courier/070990engo.pdf#page=1) 0

### IGNORE

8

## [Page 2](https://.../courier/070990engo.pdf#page=2) 0

### IGNORE

UNESCO COURIER-Page 2 MARCH I 952
FROM THE FOUR CORNERS...
liD ITOR IAL OFF ICES :
UNESCO House
19, Ave. Kléber, PARIS-16
Editor- ! n-Chief : S. M. KOFFLER
EDITORS
English edition : R. S. FENTON
French edition : A. LEVENTIS
Spanish edition : J. DE BENITO
Signed articles express the opinions of the
authors and do not necessarily represent he
opinions et Unesco r the editors of the COURTIER.
Imprimerie GEORGES LANG
I rueCuDat, Paris.
MC. 52 I 58. A.
A full year's subscription (12 Issues)
costs only $1*, or 55. or 200 French
Francs.
Write to our agent In your country
listed below, or directly to UNESCO
House, 19, avenue KIeber, Parts-16',
France.
Argentina : Editorial Sudamericana,
S. A., Alsina 500, Buenos Aires.
Australia : H. A. Goddard Ltd., 255 a
George Street, Sydney.
Austria : Wilhelm Frick Verlag, 27 Gra-
ben, Vienna 1.
Barbados : S. P. C. K. Bookshop (Regional
Office Caribbean Area), Broad Street,
Bridgetown.
Belgium : Librairie Encyelopedique, 7,
rue du Luxembourg, Brussels IV.
Bolivia : Libreria Selecciones, Av. 16 de
Julio 216, Casilla 972, La Paz.
Brazil : Livraria Agir Editora, Rua
Mexico 98-B, Caixa postal 3291, Rio
de Janeiro.
Burma : Burma Educational Bookshop,
551-3 Merchant Street. P. O. Box 222,
Rangoon.
Canada : English speaking : University
01 Toronto Press, Toronto. French
speaking : Benoit Baril, 4234, rue de
) a Roche. Montreal 34.
Ceylon : Lake House Bookshop, The
Associated Newspapers of Ceylon,
Ltd, Colombo I :
Chile : Libreria Lope de Vega, Moneda
924, Santiago de Chile.
Colombia : Emilio Royo Martin, Carrera
9a, 1791, Bogota.
Cuba : La Casa Belga, O'Reilly 455,
Havana.
Czechoslovakia : Orbis, Narodni 37,
Prague I.
Denmark : Einar Munksgaard Ltd., 6
Norregade, Copenhagen, K.
Ecuador : Casa de la Cultura Ecuato-
riana, av Mariano Aguilera 332,
Casilla 67, Quito.
Egypt : La Renaissance d'Egypte, 9,
Adly Pasha set., Cairo.
Finland : Akateeminen Kirjakauppa,
2 Keskuskatu, Helsinki.
France : Librairie Universitaire, 26, rue
Soumot. Paris (5.).
Greece : Elefthéroudakis, Librairie In-
ternationale. Athens.
Hungary : Kultura, P. O. B. 149, Buda-
pest 62.
India : Oxford Book & Stationery Co.,
Scindia House, New Delhi.
Bombay and South India : Vidya-
bhavan Granthagar, Chowpatty
Road, Bombay 7.
Indo-China : K. Chantarith, C. C. R.,
38, rue Van Vollenhoven. Phnom-Penh.
Indonesia : G. C. T. van Dorp & Co.
NV., Djalan Nusantara, 22, Djakarta.
Israel : Blumstein's Bookstores Ltd.,
35, AHenbyRoad. Tel Aviv.
Italy : G. C. Sansoni, via Gino Ca-
poni 26, casella postale 552. Flo-
rence.
Japan : Maruzen Co, Inc., 6 Tori-Ni-
chome, Nihonbashi, Tokyo.
Lebanon : Librairie Universelle, Avenue
des Francis, Beirut.
Malayan Federation and Singapore :
Peter Chong and Co., P. O. Box 135,
Singapore.
Mexico : Libreria Universttaria. Justo
Sierra 16, Mé. dco D. F.
Netherlands : N. V. Martinus NijhoH.
Lange Voorhout 9, The Hague.
Nigeria : C. M. S. Bookshop, P. O. Box
174, Lagos.
Norway : AjS Bokhjornet, Stortingsplass
7, Oslo.
Pakistan : Thomas & Thomas, Fort
Mansions, Frere Road, Karachi 3.
Peru : Libreria Internacional del Peru,
S. A., Giron de la Union, Lima.
Philippines : Philippine Education Co.,
Inc., 1104 Castillejos, Quiapo, Manila.
Portugal : Publicacôes Europa-America,
Ltda, 4 Rua da Barroca, Lisbon.
Puerto Rico : Pan American Book Co.,
San Juan, 12.
Spain : Aguilar S. A. de Ediciones, Juan
Bravo 38, Madrid.
Sweden : AB. C. E. Fritzes Kun9L Hov-
bokhandel, Fredsgatan 2, Stock-
holm 16.
Switzerland : French speaking cantons :
Librairie de 1'University, 22-24, rue de
Romont, Fribourg. German speaking
cantons : Europa Verlag, 5 Rams-
strasse, Zurich.
Syria : Librairie Universelle, Damascus.
Tangier : CercIe International, 54, rue
due statute
Thailand : Suksapan Panit, Arkarn 9,
Raj-Demnern Avenue, Bangkok.
Turkey : Librairie Hachette, 469 Istiklal
caddesi, Beyoglu, Istanbul.
Union of South Africa : Van Schaik's
Bookstore, Ltd., P. O. Box 724,
Pretoria.
United Kingdom : H. M. Stationery
Office. P. O. Box 569, London, S. E. I.
United States of America : Columbia
University Press, 2960 Broadway,
New York.
Uruguay : Centro de Cooperacion Cien-
tifica p : a la America Latina, Unesco,
B,, 1evC'c Artigas 1320, Montevideo.
* $1. 50 in the U. S. and Canada.
Except when otherwise started, art-
cles appearing in this issue may be
reproduced without prior permission,
provided acknowledgement is given
to the Unesco COURIER.
* A centre where young choreographers
can work out new ideas in the ballet
has recently been created in Great
Britain. Named Ballet Workshop, the
new centre is part-studio, part-theatre.
Dancers are chosen from a roster of
young performers and sometimes
students from a nearby ballet school
are used. Volunteer labour, ingenuity
and the help of leading ballet companies
have reduced production costs to only
£15 two £20.
* The method of collective paintings
for children has been introduced to
boys and girls of school age in Japan
following the publication of the July-
August issue of the Courier devoted to
children's art. An illustrated article in
that issue described how paintings are
executed collectively by groups of
Parisian children.
* Vienna is organizing a Scandinavian
festival to illustrate the links uniting
Austria with the Nordic countries. The
celebrations, to be held in the first week
of this month, include exhibitions on
Norwegian art and Scandinavian books.
* Sixty-five nations have signed one
of the most sweeping agreements ever
reached. It allocates frequencies for all
the world's radio stations-from
standard broadcasting stations to aero-
planes and ships, world-wide telegraph
and telephone systems and experiment-
al and amateur stations. All of these
were fitted into their own places in the
radio frequency spectrum. The body
which instituted the agreement,
the International Telecommunications
Union, is the oldest international orga-
nization in existence. It was founded
in 1865, and is now one of the Specialized
Agencies of the United Nations.
* More than 50, 000 Ara. b refugee
children are now attending classes
in emergency schools opened by the
United Nations Relief Works Agency
and Unesco. An equal number is
being accommodated in private and
state schools in the Gaza area,
the Kingdom of Jordan, Lebanon
and Syria. But that still leaves some
46 per cent of the children between six
and 14 without schooling.
* Five of the ten ratifications needed
have now been obtained for a Unesco-
sponsored agreement which will abolish
import duties on books, newspapers,
works of art, educational films,
newsreels, sound recordings, scientific
equipment for approved institutions,
and educational materials for the blind.
Pakistan is the fifth nation to ratify.
Previous countries were Yugoslavia,
Ceylon, Thailand and Cambodia.
Twenty-two other countries have signed
but net yet ratified the agreement.
Eleven of these have taken action to
secure parliamentary approval.
* A society for the advancement of
science in EI Salvador has just been
established as a result of the work of
the Unesco Scientific Co-operation
Centre for Latin America. The asso-
ciation is one of the first results of the
recent showing in El Salvador of a
Unesco travelling scientific exhibition
* The Tate Gallery in London-one
of the world's finest art collections-
is organizing a scheme to lend some
of its masterpieces to Britain's smaller
provincial towns. Like many other
important museums, the Tate has
insufficient space to display all its
THREE SCHEMES TO EASE
THE PAPER SHORTAGE
Responses to Unesco's campaign
for effort to ease the u'orld paper
shorlage haee come from Finland,
France and Costa Rica. Finland is
increasing its newsprint production
by 25 per cent./) An official of the
Finnish A ssociation of Paper Mills
announced that Unesco's campaign
"has partly been responsible for
this planned new production."In
Paris, students are busily collecting
old newspapers, magazines and
other paper, in accordance with a
plan arranged by France's paper in-
dustry Between one-and-a-half and
two tons of paper are being gather-
ed daily in this 1AJUY from private
families, embassies, offices and
shops. Students earn lJiy amounts
from the paper [hey turn in. In
Costa Rica the government is study-
ing a scheme for the setting-up of
the first paper mill industry sin Cen-
tral America.
pictures. The new scheme will thus
provide a new opportunity for provin-
cial townspeople to view outstanding
works of art.
* A Food and Agriculture Organization
report published in Rome last January
states that only 10 per cent of the
world's land surface is under cultiva-
tion. North America, with only two per
cent of the world's agricultural popula-
tion and 15 per cent of the farm land,
feeds its own peoples and is an impor-
tant exporter of foodstuffs. Asia, with
63 per cent agricultural population and
17 per cent of the farm land, is under-
nourished.
* University courses in technical
assistance are now being organized in
the Netherlands and the United States.
An International Academic Institute is
to be established this year in the
Netherlands which will provide special
courses on the various aspects of
economic development of countries
requiring technical aid. In the U. S-.
Haverford College will train technicians
by courses which stress methods of
increasing production and improving
healtn and living conditions in under-
developed areas.
* The most complete source book of
musical works produced in all the
countries of the world is to be prepared
by the International Musicological
Society and the International Associa-
tion of Musical Libraries under the
auspices of the International Music
Council. The survey will cover all
musical works, in both printed and
manuscript form, produced prior to
1800. In addition, a series of catalogues
will provide detailed information on
all musical sources up to the present
day.
* During 1951, a substantial increase
was made in Venezuela's education
budget, a large part of this expenditure
being devoted to literacy teaching and
a fundamental education centre at Palo
Negro. Teachers'salaries were in-
creased and 800 more teachers were
employed. In three years the number
of pupils has risen by 142, 000.
* The U. N. reports that the population
of the world was approximately
2, 400, 000, 000 in mid-1950. According
to information released by the Statis-
tical Office of the United Nations,
populations by continents were : Africa,
198, 000, 000 ; North America, 216, 300 000 ;
South America, 111, 400, 000 ; Asia (ex-
cluding USSR), 1, 272, 000, 000 ; Europe
(excluding USSR), 396, 000, 000 ; Oceania,
12, 900, 000 ; USSR, 193, 000, 000 (1946
total).
* The world's population is increasing
by at least 25, 000, 000 yearly. Net
increase of births over deaths is
approximately 60, 000 each day, 2, 500
each hour, 41 each minute. The real
cause in the rate of growth is the
steadily declining death rate.
Some population figures : Japan :
83, 000, 000. Life expectancy for males
is 58 ; for females, 61-eleven years
more than in pre-war days. Itaty :
population increase, 450, 000 a year.
India : population increase, 42, 000, 000 in
last ten years. Puerto Rico : population
increase from 1, 869, 225 in 1940 to
2, 210. 703 in 1950.
ONLY 30 DAYS LEFT
Despite increased production costs, the
price of the COURIER has remained unchanged
during the past year. The sharp rise in the
cost of paper and printing in recent months
has, however, made it impossible to continue
publication at our present rates. We regret to
inform our readers, therefore, that after March 31
1952, new rates will go into effect as follows :
ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION. 500 French francs
10s. 6d.
2 dollar.
S) NGLE COPiES......... 50 French francs
1 shilling
20 cents
(or equivalent in local currency).
Readers who have not yet subscribed to the
COURIER or whose subscriptions expire after
April 1, 1952, are urged to take advantage of the
considerable saving in price by subscribing
now at our present annual rates of 200 French
francs, 5s. or $1 ($1. 50 in the United States
and Canada). Subscriptions at our old rates
will be accepted by our Sales Agents for all
orders postmarked not later than March 31,
1952.
HOW TO SUBSCRIBE
Send your subscription to the address of
the Sales Agent indicated in the adjoining
column.
Readers in France should send their remit-
tances to our agent :
Librairie Universitaire, 26, rue Soufflot,
Paris, 5e, Compte Cheque Postal No. 478, 852.
Readers living in countries outside the
sterling, franc or dollar areas, can subscribe
in their local currencies through our Unesco
Sales Agents.
IF NO SALES AGENT IS LISTED FOR YOUR
COUNTRY, send your subscription to the
Sales and Distribution Division, Unesco,
19, Avenue Kleber, Paris, 16e, France.
But please do not send your remittance direct
to Unesco (or to the Editor of the COURIER)
if there is a Sales Agent for your country.
The Unesco COURIER is an international
monthly illustrated periodicat devoted to acti-
vities and developments throughout the world
in the sciences, the arts and education. It is
published in English, French and Spanish.
If you are interested in people of all nations,
if you are alert to today's events and problems,
SUBSCRIBE NOW to the COURIER.
REMEMBER, BY SUBSCRIBING WITHOUT
DELAY YOU WILL RECEIVE THE COURIER
REGULARLY FOR ONE FULL YEAR AT
OUR OLD PRICE :
200 French francs
5 shillings
1 dollar.

## [Page 3](https://.../courier/070990engo.pdf#page=3) 0

### UNINDEXED_ARTICLE

MARCH) 952 Page 3-UNESCO COURIER
Southern
fights the I
against illii
by Carlo LEVI
Author of'c hrist
Stopped at Eboli'
Photo, raph. by DavId Seymour
POST-WAY Italy has shown an amazing spiritof enterprise, as if a long pent-up vitality
had suddenly found release and come out
as naturally as the leaves on the trees unfolding,
after winter had ended, under the first warm rays
of the sun. Every man has gone his own way
and set about working out the solution of his
individual difficulties, but at the same time an
effort has been made to attack some deep-rooted
evils which are incompatible with today's
atmosphere of freedom. One of these. efforts,
which has been carried out with scanty financial
support, but with genuine energy and devotion,
is the battle against illiteracy.
Illiteracy is a long-standing plague of Italian
society and varies greatly from one end of the
peninsula to the other. In the last century,
when Italy was in the process of achieving
national unity, illiterates made up the majority
of the population. The Government hastened to
install compulsory elementary schools and within
a few decades the population of the urban and
industrial North was as literate as that of the
most advanced countries of Europe.
But for many reasons, progress in the South
was much less easy. The most recent nation-
wide statistics (1931) indicated 40 per cent of
illiteracy in Sicily, 46 per cent in Lucania and
48 per cent in Calabria. During the Fascist
regime the problem was passed over in silence and
appeared to have been forgotten. Then, with the
war, the destruction of roads and school buildings,
the dispersion of families and the general poverty
and confusion, the problem became more difficult
to solve than ever.
THIS complex phenomenon of large-scaleilliteracy is, of course, closely tied up with
the economic and social conditions of the
South. We may say, in a general way, that illite-
racy is born of poverty and breeds more poverty
in its turn ; it arises where there is an absence of
democracy and tends to perpetuate this absence.
But if one of its causes is strictly economic, the
other has social, political and spiritual impli-
cations which are a concomitant of the structure
of the state and the form of its culture. The two
causes are connected and, indeed, interdependent,
and for this reason no partial solution of the
problem can be achieved.
Anyone can see the relationship between
illiteracy and poverty. A map illustrative of its
distribution would show that it goes hand in hand
with barren land, bad sanitary conditions, mala-
ria, and the lack of industries, communications
and public works. Miserably poor families must
put their children to work early. They send the
boys to watch over herds of goats grazing on the
desolate clay, and put the girls to cooking,
cleaning, watching over the babies, weaving
baskets and carrying jars of water from the
distant well. The school is, in most cases, far
BESIDES these causes of illiteracy, there is, tomy mind, another category of underlying
reasons which, paradoxically, make the
peasants'ignorance an asset in their own eyes.
They live in an immobile and timeless world.
circumscribed by ancient rites and customs and
the tasks imposed by the changing seasons ; yet,
a world that is rich in human values and a culture
all its own. There is a peasant way of life that is
radically different from our modern urban civi-
lization ; a peasant art and a peasant philosophy
that have been handed down without benefit of
the written word in the heritage of legends, folk-
tales, popular dramas and songs, all of which
have inspired or enriched our more sophisticated
art forms.
The peasant, living alone on the land, is
content with this artistic and philosophic
tradition, with this poetry of proverbial wisdom
transcribed into doggerel verse. The observant
traveller cannot fail to be struck by the frequency
with which the peasants speak in rhyme and
make use in their dialect of highly poetic images
(Continued on next sage.)
away ; there is not enough money to buy books
and notebooks, and frequent illness keeps the
children at home.
The townships and villages are as poor as the
families, and the central Government is distant.
Schoolhouses, like roads, sewers, heat and light,
are often lacking. When the winter wind blows
snow down from the mountains people become
isolated.
Under these conditions it is easy to appreciate
the difficulties of learning to read and write.
And, to the illiteracy of children, we must add
that of those adults who once had some schoolir. g
but who, for lack of practice, have forgotten all
they ever knew. The hard life of the peasants
does not leave much time for that miracle of
communication, the written word. And it is
plain enough why poverty and illiteracy fall into
a vicious circle. The illiterate peasant is
hampered in any attempt to better. his lot ; he
is condemned to stay on the land without any
possibility of migrating or raising his social
status. And so it is that he hands down the state
of servitude into which he was born.
Italy
battle
reracy

## [Page 4](https://.../courier/070990engo.pdf#page=4) 0

### UNINDEXED_ARTICLE

UNESCO COURIER-Page 4 MARCH 1952
Children and adults willingly walk miles from outlying
farms to reach classes in southern Italy. This
Calabrian road, blocked by snow during part of year,
branches off to a path leading to Saucci village.
Entrance to People's Cultural Centre in Rogiano
Gravina. Children attend school here by day, adults
in the evening. Twenty-eight similar Centres have
now been set up in this region to fight illiteracy.
Elementary school in San Nicola da Crissa, Calabria.
Until recently the fifth grade was the end of schooling.
Now instruction continues for older boys and girls,
and libraries and youth clubs playa very active part.
The workshop at the Rogiano Gravina Cultural Centre. The boys are busily pre-
paring relief maps of Italy for schools in the neighbourhood. The Centre also
orga"i" ; ne cultural evenings, musical bands, amateur dramatics for young people.
Antonio Janni teaches in Saucci, but lives in Bagaladi, ten miles away. Every
morning he drives his motor scooter over tortuous roads to school. When the
children leave in the afternoon, Janni stays to teach adults reading and writing.
NEW ENTHUSIASM FOR LEARN ING
ITS SWEEPING SOUTHERN ITALY
(Continued from previous age)
such as would put to shame not only the average
city dweller but many a professional writer as
well.
The written word is for the peasants a symbol
of the remoteness of the central Government, of
a feudal bond which has never grown into a right
to full citizenship. It is, in short, the expression
of a hostile civilization. And the peasants oppose
it with their own hostility. They react by
defending their own ignorance, as if by so doing
they could protect ancient values from corruption
and shield themselves from a hostile world.
FINALLY, there are two factors that makethe peasants feel that book learning is
superfluous. First is the virtual lack of
publications concerned with life as they live it,
with the work they do seen from their own point
of view. And second is the existence of varying
dialects, and the fact that the peasants think
of the Italian language, properly speaking, as a
literary creation or one reserved for public
documents. The survival of dialects is another
form of self-imposed peasant segregation.
It is plain from the above that the problem of
illiteracy is a complex one. It is not sufficient
to allot specific funds to combat it or even to
concentrate upon raising the living standard c
the population. In order to overcome deep-rooted
subjective and psychological obstacles the state
must become more truly democratic. The peasants
must realize and join in what the Government
is trying to do, so that they may no longer
consider themselves estranged from the rest of
the nation, but feel themselves to be an integral
part of it. Of course, the opposite is equally
true, and the battle against illiteracy is one of
the chief means to render the nation more
democratic.
In every period of political and economic prc-
gress peasants feel the need of wider knowledge.
They then spontaneously abandon their position
of resistance and hostility. At such times they
look on their ignorance as standing in the way
of a freedom within their grasp.
With political parties and trade unions thrown
open to them, and a possibility of improving their
situation and becoming fully-sledged citizens of
the nation, instead of serfs and outlaws, the
peasants of the south have shown a real urge in
the last few years to achieve education. We must
take advantage of this state of mind and not let
them sink back into their old discouragement
and resignation. Every effort to satisfy their
needs is a blow struck for enduring democracy.
For if the peasants are given a fair chance they
will not turn to desperate political remedies or
anarchical acts of violence and plunder. The
brigandage of the last century had the same
causes as those which give rise to illiteracy.
its the end of the last war, the Italian Governmentundertook an extensive campaign against illiteracy
in southern Italy. Since 1947, when a special law
was passed, the lIlinistry of Public Education has set up
11, 000 public courses which have been attended by some
300, 000 adults and young people. This government action
was paralleled by the creation of a series of private
institutions, one of the most outstanding of which is the
National League for the Struggle Against Illiteracy. The
League began its u'ork in 1948. It opened numerous
schools tor illiterates and semi-literates. In 1949, the
most original institution of the League took form : the
People's Cultural Centre. Today} 28 such centres are
active, scattered through the regions of Calabria, Lucania
and Sardinia. Each has a structure and character of its
own. The head of each centre is a teacher appointed by
IT is a hard job to prepare a corps of teacherswho know their material, are aware of the
social importance of the job, and an.
acquainted with the customs, needs and interests
of their pupils. There is a pressing need for
textbooks which would appeal to the adult
peasant, with his store of ancient wisdom, rather
than to a school child ; and for newspapers, ma-
gazines, books, calendars and pamphlets adapted
to the world in which the peasants live. No
Government office is likely to think things out
so subtly and yet the means required are almost
too large to be provided by private initiative.
Government action is necessary, but it is also
inadequate, for it cannot altogether dispel the
peasants'lingering distrust. Lasting results can
be obtained only if their spontane9us desire to
learn is satisfied with the proper tools.

## [Page 5](https://.../courier/070990engo.pdf#page=5) 0

### UNINDEXED_ARTICLE

the League who invites all competent persons in the coy-
munity-the agricultural engineer, the doctor, the
mechanic, the veterinarian, the parish priest-to answer
questions asked by the students.
The'work of the League against illiteracy has O'wakeneà
great interest. It has obtained the moral and financial
support of numerous national and international organiza-
tions. Recently, Unesco decided to include the National
League for the Struggle Against Illiteracy among its As-
sociated Projects in Fundamental Education, and will
provide information to aid it in its work. Reciprocally,
the League will inform Unesco regularly of its progress
and accomplishments. An international expert from
Unesco is now in Calabria helpin. q to organize specific
methods of dealing with students'questions and class-
room discussion.
Immediately after the war circumstances were
propitious. A group of somewhat romantically
idealistic young men of Calabria and Lucania
were inspired by the ferment of popular feeling
to start a large-scale drive for person-to-person
teaching, such as was carried out so effectively in
Mexico. Soon they had joined their efforts with
those of the National League for the Struggle
Against Illiteracy in Rome, an organization of
women volunteers.
- w ACK of funds somewhat curtailed this group'sefforts but at the same time gave them a
more definite and practical character.
In May, 1947, an investigation was conducted by
young social workers in Lucania in order to get
an exact picture of what should be done. As we
have seen, there were no up-to-date statistics on
illiteracy, and those of almost twenty years ago
could not be considered reliable. This inves-
tigation proved that the problem was indeed a
serious one. In all of Lucania there were only
thirty-six school buildings : twenty-eight in the
121 townships of the Province of Potenza and
eight in the twenty-eight townships of the pro-
vince of Matera. In other localities, schooling
was given under private roofs, often in attics,
cellars or shacks.
When the statistics that were garnered from
these investigations were compared with Army
records it was discovered that illiteracy was
more widespread among adults born in 1926
than among those born between 1915 and 1920.
These same statistics also showed the extent to
which adults who once learned to read had
relapsed into illiteracy. Questionnaires were used
to determine the exact reasons for failure to
attend elementary school and a study was made
of local living conditions. In this way there was
some concrete basis for further action.
The first step was to provide a channel through
which the peasants could express their ambition
to learn, and this took form in local village
Committees to Battle Illiteracy. So many of
these were created that on January 24-25, 1948,
their secretaries held a regional meeting in
Matera and agreed to work closely with the
mayors and school-teachers of their villages.
Gatherings were held in the public squares,
loudspeakers carried the message into the streets
and persuasive people of goodwill made a door-
to-door campaign. Their propaganda was
sincere because they were not strangers but
people on the spot who understood the peasants
with whom they were dealing.
WITHIN a fortnight adult education groupssprang up all over Lucania. They were
lodged in a strange variety of quarters.
There were so many applications that courses
were swamped. Where three classes had been
announced, they had to be increased to five the
next day and ten the day after, until there was
no place left to hold them.
At Muro Lucano a carabiniere had to preserve
order among those who were turned away ; and
at Tricarico they sat silently outside the impro-
vised schoolroom while their more fortunate
fellows attended the lesson. The village of
Bernalda, which is subject to frequent electric
power failures, decided that private houses could
remain dark while the lights were on for night
classes in the school-house. The peasants
themselves strung wires and installed the light-
ing. Now it shines out over the mountain-top
village.
(This article is copyright and must not be reproduced
without permission.)
Page 5-UNESCO COURIERMARCH 1952
300, 000 ADULTS AND CHILDREN
HAVE ATTENDED 11, 000 COURSES

## [Page 6](https://.../courier/070990engo.pdf#page=6) 0

### 70992: UNESCO can help to check militarism, says German Federal President

UNESCO COURIER-Page 6 MARCH 1952
UNESCO CAN HELP TO CHECK MILITARISM)
SAYS GERMAN FEDERAL PRESIDENT
DR. THEODOR HEUSS
welcomes entry into
United Nations Agency
-UNESCO'S decision to admitGermany as one of its
Member States proves its
concern for universality. This, I
believe, is bound to benefit Unesco
both materially and spiritually.
There is one thing, however, I
should like to stress in order to
destroy certain stupid rumours one
hears sometimes. That thing is
that Unesco in no way seeks to cover
all minds with a uniform coat of
paint or to make all peoples dance
to the same tune. Unesco's job is
rather to open men's eyes so that
they greet one another with
understanding and friendliness, and
not as strangers. He who travels
from one end of the world to the
other only to make up his mind
that everything is better in his own
country might just as well have
saved himself the time and trouble
of his journey. But he who finds
everything better outside his own
country is probably nothing more
than an ignorant philistine. Some
kind of enlightened curiosity toward
humanity as a whole is necessary
if we are to conquer sentiments of
superiority towards the ways of life
and ideas of other peoples.
The word"'tolerance"often
appears in works published by
Unesco. This is a splendid word,
but only if it implies a definite
respect for other people's ways-not
just a passive and indulgent
acceptance.
It is only in this light that the
abstract phrases of the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights take
on colour and life. Religious and
philosophic traditions no less than
social and political experience which
are part of the spiritual history of
mankind find in the Declaration
their common denominator. But if
the Declaration of Human Rights is
to be more than just the reflection
of a fleeting moment in history, men
must see in it standards and
obligations for all mankind. It is
not new ideologies which are needed
but new conditions.
The way history is presented is
closely bound up with politics.
Discussion on this subject at the
national level is free and should
remain so. We who have known
National-Socialism realize only too
well to what extent official
censorship can mutilate the. past.
All Germans, not only historians,
should feel free to have differing
opinions on Frederick the Great
and Bismarck, just as Frenchmen
should on Napoleon Bonaparte and
Napoleon III.
In this respect, I should like to
mention an event which I consider
In the Chamber of Parliament at Bonn, several weeks ago, an impressive cere-mony marked the entry of the German Federal Republic into Unesco. On this
occasion the Director-General of Unesco journeyed to the German capital
as guest of the Federal Republic and conferred with leading officials, including
President Theodor Heuss and Chancellor Konrad Adenauer. During his stay
in Germany, M. Torres Bodet attended the inaugural meeting the National Com-
mission, presided over by Professor Walter Erbe, and met the head of the
International Institute of Social Sciences which was recently created in Germany
under Unesco auspices. Before returning to Paris, the Director-General stopped
at two of the most renowned cultural centres in Germany : Beethoven's house in
Bonn, and Goethe's house in Frankfort. On this page, we publish some of the
salient passages from the addresses delivered at the Chamber of Parliament by
Dr. Heuss and M. Torres Bodet.
particularly significant, and in
accord with Unesco's ideals. French
and German history teachers
recently met in Mainz to discuss
the events of the last forty or fifty
years, and the tensions, the
problems and the differences which
arose during this period.
By earnestly seeking to determine
the true facts, they were able to
reach joint conclusions concerning
the presentation or such themes
as Poincare, the Anschluss and
others in history classes. Teachers
of history in both countries have
been invited to profit from these
findings and to avoid the traditional
clichés which have been common
in the past. This event shows how
distortions can be eliminated from
accounts of history when these.
distortions are caused by old
propaganda and misconceptions
inspired by events which are
depasse.
During the war, certain ideals
and values which could be applied
later were not completely aban-
doned. Nations, it is true, were at
that time devoting all their efforts
to mutual annihilation. But the
peoples-or, at least, the best
citizens among them-had not
completely forgotten that we live
side by side with one another, and
through one another. To ask if it
would be possible one day to live
for one another inevitably meant
being regarded as a sentimentalist,
a Utopian, or even as a traitor.
If it is true that, historically
speaking, the word is mightier than
the sword, then the purposes and
mission of Unesco can only be to
restore the things of the spirit to
their rightful role and effectiveness.
Unesco must help to checkmate the
pretensions of power politics,
militarism and economic material-
ism to decide history's course.
But is it not illusory to speak such
words at a time when the pooling
of European coal production, and
the possibilities of a new type of
army seem to be the only questions
that count ? I am quite aware that
this is only a gross simplification of
the fundamental problem of our
time, but I present this question in
as hard and cold a way as possible
purposely. For even when it appeals
to rational arguments, romantic
sentimentalism has less effect today
than ever before and has even less
effect on the Germans than on
other peoples.
The answer to this question
depends on our abilities, on our
willingness to recognize the presence
of the spiritual and the effectiveness
of moral and religious factors which
are the corner stone and very
foundation of the historical
background of individual peoples
and of all humanity.
M. TORRES BODET :
'No true culture is
enemy of others'
WHEN it became a Member Stateof Unesco, the German Fe-
deral Republic acquired ipso
facto privileges which are also
duties. It undertook to contribute
to the common welfare of humanity
according to its capacities and in its
own special way.
The talents of your people, the
contribution which your culture can
make-and for centuries you have
shown how valuable these can be
- would once more be devoted to
serving of our fellow-men.
For every nation, entry into
Unesco means a stock-taking of its
own wealth, and a scrutiny, as it
were, of its own conscience. It
means asking what it can draw
from the resources of its own genius
for the benefit of its own and other
nations.
It also means resolving to fight
against the fatal temptation, some-
times insidious, sometimes insolent,
to treat others with contempt, or
to make others the means of
attaining a perhaps intoxicating
greatness, but one which is founded
on the humiliation of others, and
therefore contemptible.
No true culture is the enemy of
other cultures. The greater a
culture knows itself to be, the more
it feels called upon to give life to
others by its own contributions,
while at the same time esteeming
itself all the more capable of assi-
milating what other cultures offer.
A great culture is. neither jealous
nor timid. It fears neither to give
nor to receive. It is never afraid
that a foreign culture will eclipse it,
nor imagines that it can be corrupted
by another. It is not exclusive, it
is generous.
History teaches us eloquently
enough that all great cultures are
born at the cross-roads where
civilizations meet, amid material
and spiritual borrowings, exchanges,
and ferment, where the traffic in
things and ideas is at its height.
That is why Unesco fights for the
welfare of all cultures simulta-
neously, encouraging them to get
to know one another, to make
contacts, and to compete freely with
one another. We are convinced
that thereby every one of them will
be enriched and fructified.
A culture is not imposed by force
of arms, nor by the power of money.
It is imposed by its own merits, in
the forefront of which is the kind
of sympathy it shows towards
others, and that others can only
return, for sympathy creates sym-
pathy no less certainly than
contempt engenders distrust.
The National Commissions of
Unesco have therefore, as their first
duty within the territory of each
Member State, to promote and
encourage all measures likely to
persuade every citizen to look
beyond his own frontiers with
confidence and goodwill.
World opinion, however ill-
informed, inconsistent, or fickle it
may be, is nevertheless a factor
which every Government must take
into account, since it demonstrates
more clearly every day how inter-
dependent the different peoples of
the world really are. There are
very few decisions taken by any
State which are not likely, sooner
or later, to have repercussions at the
other end of the globe.
Twenty years ago, I visited Beet-
hoven's birthplace. The extreme
simplicity of this house accorded
well, no doubt, with the memory of
one who had been born, on a day
in December, into a poor home.
And no visitor can forget the long
tragedy of the life which began
within those walls. And yet, I had
not been prepared for the pathetic
humility of that room.
This memory recurred to me for
many years, when I thought of
Germany, and has become a kind of
symbol. After a terrible war, the
German fatherland, torn and
bleeding, looked the embodiment of
wretchedness and isolation.
All its wounds are not yet healed.
It still endures divisions and
countless frustrations. But no
nation in the world is prevented by
its difficulties from stretching out
with all its strength towards that
unique source of hope and peace
which is international collaboration
and the mutual trust of men in the
quest for freedom and justice

### IGNORE

THE BIRTHPLACE OF BEETHOVEN
"I had not been prepared for the pathetic humility of that room.
Around the bust they had arranged a few relics. Near it was a
small window, through which a shaft of sunlight suddenly shone.
It played about the head of Beethoven like an aureole and this
radiance transformed the room with its melancholy treasures,
and abruptly revealed its secret majesty."These words by
M. Torres Bodet evoke the spirit which pervades the house of
Beethoven at Bonn, some views of which are shown here.

## [Page 7](https://.../courier/070990engo.pdf#page=7) 0

### 70995: The Blind are achieving a fuller role in everyday life

MARCH 1952 Page 7-UNESCO COURIER
THE BLIND ARE ACHIEVING A FULLER
ROLE IN EVERYDAY LIFE
A BLIND man is not merely a person deprivedof sight. with all that this implies in the
limitatiòn of his possibilities for action and
inquiry. Socially speaking, he is a creature
subject to serious constraint. The attitude of
people towards blindness in the past was always
surrounded by an aura of fear or mystery. This
is revealed in their treatment of the blind.
In primitive societies, the blind were held to
be possessed ; and if their lives were sometimes
spared, it was because people feared the spirits
dwelling in them. The Laws of Manu authorized
the killing of infants born blind and relegated to
the ranks of the outcasts those smitten with
blindness later in life. In Ancient Rome, the cur-
rent of opinion which tempered the dread
prerogatives of the paterfamilias never went so
far as to condemn the practice of abandoning
children born with an infirmity. In the old Bibli-
cal days, blindness was considered an uncleanness :
"Blind, or broken, or maimed, or having a wen,
or scurvy, or scabbed, ye shall not offer these
unto the Lord..." (Leviticus, XXII, 22) ;"... a blind
man, or a lame,... shall not come nigh to offer
the offerings of the Lord" (id., XXI, 18). The
practice of blinding princes to prevent them from
acceding to the throne, which still prevailed at
the Persian Court as late as the 17th century,
was conceived less as a punishment than as a
means of branding them with a mark of infirmity.
T'if blind ceased to be outcasts when the Gospelmade them (and ai'so deaf-mutes and the
dead) the subject of miracles and proof of
Divine healing power. Mediæval Christianity
and Islam accorded them the status of privileged
by Pierre HE. NRI
Professor at the Institute for the
Young Blind, Paris.
beggars ; and on occasions they served as inter-
cessors with the Divinity and read the Lord's
prayers or. recited the verses of the Koran. Never-
theless, their position in society remained pre-
carious and degrading.
A certain degree of progress has been achieved
in modern society. For the past 250 years men
have made an effort to understand the psychology
of the sightless, beginning with William Moly-
neux, the English physicist, who early in the 18th
century first put the famous question to John
Locke : would a man who was born blind and
who later gained his sight be able to distinguish a
cube from a sphere ? And for the past 170 years,
attention has been given to the systematic educa-
tion of the blind. In spite of this, the attitude
of sighted people towards blindness remained
coloured by many fictions derived not from
external experience-that is, from direct observa-
tion of the blind-but from subjective and
largely emotional sentiments. To a seeing man,
any understanding of or influence upon the outer
world seems impossible without sight. When a
person closes his eyes in an attempt to realize
what a blind man may think and feel, his mind,
emptied of all visual impressions, is invaded by
the terrors which beset primitive man in the
dark. Those who can see are too afraid of blind-
ness to be able to understand it. Here, indeed,
is the chief obstacle to the natural assimilation
of the abnormality which the blind man repre-
sents in the social organism.
From this it is clear that the emancipation of
the blind has depended and will always depend
on progress in understanding by those who can
see. So long a's sighted people fail to free their
minds of the subjective and emotional factors
which so strongly colour their ideas of blindness,
so long will the efforts of the sightless to shake
on'their burden of infirmity be doomed to failure.
NEVERTHELESS, whatever may he said by thosewho have suffered from what they some-
what bitterly call social prejudices, these do
not represent the only chain which the blind must
break. Blindness is a fact. It narrows down space
very considerably and limits a man's mastery of
the material objects in space. The biological
function of sight is to anticipate and avoid pain
and danger. Nature is hostile to any creature
incapable of reaction at a distance. Had all men
been blind, mankind could not possibly have
survived the dangers which threatened it. The
world, with all the things which men have
developed for their use, such as houses,
communications, tools and books, has been
organized by those who can see, and for them.
The blind man thus meets life with a grave
handicap. How can he possibly overcome it
except by cultivating and making the fullest
possible use of the faculties he retains ?
The first idea that comes to mind is that the
blind person should develop those of his senses
he can still use, particularly hearing and touch.
(Continued on next page)

## [Page 8](https://.../courier/070990engo.pdf#page=8) 0

### 70995: The Blind are achieving a fuller role in everyday life

Towards an equal footing
with the sighted
(Continued from previous page)
One hundred and fifty years of associationist psy-
chology held to the theory of sensory transfer.
We know now that education of the senses is in
fact education through the senses, and that all
transfer is essentially of a mental kind. For
example, it is the mind which organizes fragment-
ary data acquired analytically by the sense of
touch, and gradually builds up a series of spatial
images. These, though lacking the richness,
spontaneity and potential emotional content of
visual images, are enough to meet the practical
needs nf the h) ind. That such images do exist
even in the brain of the congenitally
blind can no langer be doubted. Dio-
genes demonstrated movement by
walking ; people born blind come
and go about their business and
solve geometrical problems which
proves that their minds are capable of
conceiving space and shape. But it
is equally true that the number, the
quality and the practical value of
these mental images depend on ade-
quate training. Without such train-
ing, a blind child cannot overcome his
imtial handicap. This is a point to
bear in mind in any discussion con-
cerning the emancipation of the blind
through education and culture. We
shat return to the point in a moment.
FIRST consider another aspect ofthe problem. While the blind
man is handicapped by the loss
of one of his'senses and must find
ways to compensate for this, he can at
all times express his ideas through the
spoken language.
1, 000 blind students were enrolled at a t l\elogical
seminary in Egypt preparing to teach and comment
on the Koran. Taha Hussein Pasha, formerly
Minister of Education in Egypt and rector of the
Farouk I University, began his successful career in
this way. Though blind, he has risen to be one of
the leading educational reformers of his country.
Endowed with a great memory, he has people to
read to him and dictates his own writings, so that he
has never found it necessary to learn Braille.
He has already published a formidable body of
works : 20 volumes of criticism and essays, half-
a-dozen novels, translations of Sophocles and
Racine into Arabic, and a fa'scinating autobiography,
In fact, long before there was any
thought of creating special schools for the sight-
less,. blind persons often astounded their seeing
contemporaries with the scope and quality of their
learning. Many are the blind who have achieved
fame. We need not dwell on those whose blind-
ness is considered legendary or otherwise disputed
(such as Oedipus, Democritus, Homer, Ossian), or
those who lost their sight late in life and therefore
offer less conclusive evidence. It is noteworthy
that as early as the 14th century, an Arab scholar
named Safadi published the biography of 307 dis-
tinguished blind Moslems. In Japan, blind scholars
had their own academic institutions for many years,
in which they transmitted the traditions and
history of their country. Blind persons in Japan
also held a practical monopoly of massage and
other healing practices.
In civilizations where a formalized culture is
handed down by memory, and where teaching is
almost entirely by word of mouth, a blind person
with a good memory is almost on an equal footing
with those who can see. Not so long ago, over
Book of Drays. which is not only a somewhat
satirical account of the training given at El-Azhar
50 years ago, but also an invaluable document on
the psychology of the blind.
No instances of formal education for the blind are
to be found either in Greek or Roman times, or in
mediaeval Christendom. On rare occasions, the
greatly gifted found their way to fame : Didymus of
Alexandria became the teacher of Saint Jerome in
the fourth century ; Palladius, one of the pupils of
Didymus, later became bishop of a see in Asia
Minor ; Joannes Ferdinand, born in Bruges in the
15th century, acquired fame as a philosopher, poet
and orator ; Pierre Pontanus, known as the"blind
man of Bruges"early in the 16th century, left
treatises on the art of writing poetry, and spoke out
fearlessly on the social problems of his day. Other
blind scholars, philosophers, theologians and
writers appeared in Italy, England, and other coun-
tries, leaving a permanent mark in their specialities.
By the 18th century, the number of sightless
whose achievements astounded the whole world
rose sharpl. History has recorded many of their
names : Elizabeth of Wa) dkireh in Switzerland,
Mélanie de Salignac in France, Maria von Paradi.-
in Austria, and Nicotas Saunderson in England.'
It was Diderot, in his famous Letter on the Blind
who first drew the world's attention to the work
of this extraordinary. man. Blinded at the age
of one following an attack of smallpox, Saunderson
had a painstaking mentor in his father. When
he attended school his lightning mental calculations
astonished hi, s teachers. He was a brilliant student
of Latin, Greek and mathematics. Before Saunder-
son was 30, he was appointed to the Lucasian Chair
of mathematics at Cambridge University, and he
was one of the rare persons In l ! ; nglana
who cou ! d exp) ain Newton's Principin.
His students were filled with admira-
tion at his lectures on optic's and his
explanations on the rainbow, the na-
ture of colours, reflection, refraction
: mud vision. Lord Chesterfield later
ralled him the miracle of a man who
lost the use of his own sight and
taught others to use theirs. To aid
his remarkable memory and compli-
cated mathematical demonstrations, he'
invented the arithmetical board which
is the basi's of today's mathematical
equipment for the blind.
This is a significant point. Most
blind people during this period found
it necessary to use or to devise for
themselves many kinds of mechanical,
aids to learning. Cut-out letters,
writing guides, relief surface maps,
musical notations on a projecting
slave, were all used. One blind per-
son, living in Hesse, Germany, even
built up for himself a huge series of
ideographs consisting of little pieces,
of wood of different shapes and sizes.
It was, in fact, the advance made in
educational techniques that laid the
foundation for the efforts to teach
them to read late in the 18th and early in the 19th
centuries. Had teaching continued to be mainly
by word of mouth, and the development of printing
not made the book rather than the teacher the
chief source of reference, Valentin Hauy might
never have thought of giving his pupils his enor-
mous quarto volumes with their pages covered with
ordinary letters embossed in large type. And,
40 years later, Louis Braille might have devoted
less care and thought to converting the meagre
system of sound symbols which his predecessor,
Charles Barbier, had suggested for the use of the
blind, into an alphabet capable of adaptation to
every language and every form of human know-.
ledge.
In the history of the rehabilitation of the blind
and of their gradual attainment of fundamental
human rights, the invention of the alphabet in rais-
ed dots marks the beginning of the era of their
intellectual emancipation. Since then, blind chil-
dren have been able to'study the same school
subjects as the sighted. Their programmes of
Britain's famous training centre for the blind, founded after World War I, follows a careful plan for rehabilitation.
Newcomer first gets Braille watch-a small but vital step to independence. Then he learns to be blind." (1) He
ista'jghttoread Braiiieandtotype. instructor is himself blind. (2) After learning to walk, wash, dress, St. Duns-
taners learn to enjoy their recreation (here a game of darts). (3) Next comes specialized instruction. This blind
man has been trained as a physiotherapist. (4) High skill of blind workers makes unemployment unlikely for
St. Dunstan"graduates."These men are checking machine parts to very fine limits. (5) Many are trained as
telephone operators. A number of firms have for many years asked St. Dunstan's to fill every suitable vacancy.
THE ST. DUNSTAN'S
TRAINING CENTRE
Instead of almost invariably being a burden on their relatives, as the sightless were
at one time, blind people now are often well-equipped to lead useful and happy lives.

## [Page 9](https://.../courier/070990engo.pdf#page=9) 0

### 70995: The Blind are achieving a fuller role in everyday life

expressions, dress, the setting of his existence and
which, while he may retain his own share of
individuality, develops in him a resemblance to his
fellows. The potential for developing the.'economic
man"is found in the opportunities for productive
and creative work or at least in the training for
it which sight makes possible.
The blind person, however, is restricted to the
boundaries of his own world which he must
patiently explore and chart. First he must learn
how to appear like other people ; he must pain-
fully acquire all the substitute skills that may help
him to bridge the tremendous initial gap between
his natural abilities and those of a sighted person,
and, in addition, he must overcome emotional
disturbances which so often spring from his
disability. From this we can see what"education"
and"culture"signify to the blind and to what
extent the ground to be covered goes beyond what
are generally called the mental faculties.
A hundred years ago it was a great achievement
to be able to teach a sightless person how to read,
write, count and to provide him with a minimum
of general knowledge. Today it means very little.
This is something which should never be forgotten
by those who work to free the blind from ignorance
in the unhappily numerous areas of the world
where educational opportunities are still extremely
limited.
It should be recognized, however, that while
culture, of a strictly intellectual order, may not
suffice alone, it is an indispensable condition, for
the substitution of one faculty for another is
primarily a mental process. Moreover, where a
sighted person understands and acts quickly and
without effort, because he can take in all the factors
invoved in deciding his action, the blind man must
go through slower processes of inference and
calculation.
The skill with which a blind man finds his way
about a city, the capabilities of the sightless"odd
job"man or worker, the blind woman who not
only copes. with all her domestic duties, but, quite
unaided, makes herself a becoming dress-here are
examples of how acquired knowledge may be put to
use. When competing with those who can see, the
blind can only hope for success through excelling
in some respect. Even to obtain a modest position
he must possess qualifications not generally requir-
ed for the post. It is therefore not unusual to find
blind university graduates working as telephoni'sts,
shorthand-typists and in other jobs which by no
means call fur the full use of their capabitities.
IN this article, we have had in mind chiefly theblind since childhood, although not because
there are more of them-two-thirds of the
blind are over 50 years old-but because their
situation sets them more sharply apart. We have
said nothing of Milton, Euler, Augustin Thierry,
Henry Fawcett, Handel or countless other poets,
scientists, scholars and artists who have contmued
their careers despite loss of sight. Their brains
continued their work ; others became their eyes.
Probably the most striking instance is that of Fran-
çois Hubert, the Swiss naturalist who impressed
his contemporaries in the late 18th century with
his observations on bees-observations made
through. the eyes of his servant.
Today many blinded people continue successful
careers in journalism, documentation services,
teaching and scientific research, with the help of
someone else's eyes.
There is no doubt that blind people have found
in the intellectual or aesthetic sphere, a means of
sublimating instinctive energies whose natural
outlet has been barred, and that they have sought
compensation in their pursuit of culture in all the,
forms and at all the levels they can reach. We
have shown that the world of the intellect remains
open to them, and it is natural that they should take
refuge there, even if, for some of them, it means a
certain overstraining of their natural aptitude
(he. Pierre llenri, ! I'ho is himself blind, has published In
French the life 01'the Blind and Tile Life and work of
Louis Braille.)
C IVILTZATION ran no longer be cmtent merely
with homo sapiens ; it needs man with a social
conscience, and homo economics, as Léon
Jouhaux has called him. Formal education may
lead to a development of the first of these, but it
plays only a small part in the formttion of the
other two. In a sighted person, social consciousness
derives from a spontaneous imitation cf everything
he sees around him, which determines his gestures,
study are the same though the method : of teaching
are different, and they receive the stme degrees.
Special libraries have slowly been buit up, mostly
by voluntary efforts, in which the adult blind can
find entertaining and instructive literatures, while
scores in Braille notation are published to enable
blind musicians to study and practise their art as
well as teach it.
In the less developed countries, wel'are work to
improve the lot of the blind sometimes results,
paradoxically, in educating people wto, had they
been able to see, would have remained illiterate,
Education then is regarded as he primary
condition for the emancipation of the blind. But
is education enough by itself ? Can ; ve say that,
where the blind have attained a certain standard
of education, they are automatically fr'ed from the
psychological and social constraints imposed by
their blindness ?
It would be wrong to believe this or to allow the
blind to do so. They need more than lnowledge or
university degrees if they are to have equal
chances in the world of those who car see. There
are plenty of examples where education, which
should have opened a door to freedom :'or the blind,
has merely stimulated the"malady of thought."
Having more to think of, they suIered more.
Spurred on by a strong desire to be compensated
for their disability or ill-advised by those around
them, the people we have in mind took up studies
which never helped them to make their way in
the world.

## [Page 10](https://.../courier/070990engo.pdf#page=10) 0

### 70996: Louis Braille unlocked the doors of darkness for millions of blind men and women throughout the world

UNESCO COURIER-Page 10 MARCH t952
LOUIS BRAILLE
unlocked the doors of darkness for millions
of blind men and women throughout the world
LOUIS BRAILLE, one of the truly great men
t of alt time, died a hundred years ago,
unknown to the world. But his simple
"touch"alphabet of raised dots for read-
ing and writing by the blind-developed
when he was only 16-has since spread his
name to every corner of the earth and unlocked
the once hopeless doors of darkness for mil-
lions of the world's sightless.
"Braille died a complete human being,
though blind,"Helen Keller has written."He
was great because he had greatly used his loss
of sight to liberate his afflicted fellow creatures.
He had both lived and died in the
glorious light of a victorious spirit
and a brilliant, inventive intellect."
This summer, to honour this
victorious spirit and inventive in-
tellect, the French Government is
transferring the remains of Louis
Braille from his humble tomb in
the village of Coupvray, 23 miles
from the capital, to the Panthéon
in Paris, where he will be buried
among his country's illustrious dead.
In many other nations, too, the
100th anniversary of his death is
being observed this year.
The son of a saddler, Braille was
born at Coupvray on January 4.
1809, At the age of three he lost
his sight when a sharp instrument
he was playing with in his father's
shop accidentally entered his eye.
An infection developed in both eyes
and he became totally blind. When
Louis was 10, he was taken to Paris
and was enrolled in the Institute
for the Young Blind. It was at this
school-the first educational insti-
tution for the blind, opened 35 years
earlier by Valentin Hairy-that
Braille distinguished himself as it
brilliant student and then became a
teacher of geometry and algebra
(his favourite subjects) as well as of
music. It was here that he learned
of t. he various raised characters used
to help the blind to read, and here
he finally evolved his own ingenious
system of dots.
Braille was not, however, by any
means the first to develop the system
of raised characters. The desire of
the blind for literacy and the efforts
of their sighted friends to open the
way for them, had led to innumer-
able experiments in embossed letters
and other schemes for many hun-
dreds of years before Braille's time.
Letters cut out of paper, pins stuck
into cushions or cards, geometrical
shapes enclosing raised dots, even
cleverly knotted strings were all
used in early attempts.
The first records of the actual use
of raised type for the blind date
from iûth century Spain and Italy.
Francisco Lucas of Saragossa, in
1571, devised a set of letters carved
on thin tablets of wood. In 157 ;),
Rampazetto of Rome improved this
somewhat.
Both methods, however, seem to
have been inspired by the earlier
teachings and writings of JeronlP
Cardan, of Italy, who had advocated
a system of reading by touch about
the year 1550.
A century later, a Jesuit priest.
FAtnpT'Ii'T'An/"p< :/,, () T. AnA T'p/" {) Q'ni7pn-----.-----------------,---- ('------
a new idea that Braille and his immediate
predecessor, Captain Barbier, were to develop
later : the potential usefulness of a cipher code
based on a number of dots enclosed in rect-
angles. In his book Prodrome. he even
proposed a'writing stylus and a wooden
writing frame with strings to indicate the lines.
Then followed a great number of inventors
who proposed various devices, including the use
of wooden movable letters, cast metal letters,
printing on copper. Of these attempts at em-
bossed type, undoubtedly the best known is that
of Valentin Hazy, who has been called the
"Father and Apostle of the Blind."
In 1771, Valentin Haüy saw a group of blind
men being hooted and laughed at by a crowd at
a Paris fair on the place Louis-) e-Grand-to-
day the place Yendòme. Horrified, he deter-
mined to devote his life to improving the lot of
the sightless.
One day, some time afterwards, he found a
blind boy begging in front of the Church of St-
Germain-des-Pres in Paris and decided to take
him home with him to try and educate him.
Haüy taught the boy, whose name was Lesueur,
to read with letters carved on wooden tablets-
similar to the method introduced by Lucas and
Rampazetto, It was slow, cumbersome and
difficult.
Then by accident to the story goes), when
Haüy was busy writing one afternoon, Lesueur
'ONE OF THE TRULY GREAT MEN OF ALL TIME'
In the village square at Coupvray, birthplace of Louis Braille, stands the
monument erected in his memory in 1887, thirty-five years after he had died
unknown. On one side of the seven-foot pedestal a bronze relief shows
Braille teaching a blind child how to read ; on the other is the Braille alphabet.
began sorting some papers on his desh. Sud-
denly the boy came across an invitation card
printed in heavily embossed relief letters and
found he could recognize some of the letters.
This gave Haüy the idea that teaching the
blind to read by raised letters on printed card-
board (embossed letters) was better than using
raised type or tablets directly.
Pierre Henri, an authority on Louis Braille
and his predecessors, doubts this story."I am
inclined to wonder,"he has written."whether
he did not get the idea from an addendum to
the 1783 edition of the LeUf'/'011 the Blind, in
which Diderot told how a Paris printer named
Pral1lt had produced a book printed in relief for
the use of a distinguished blind girl, Mile de
:- ; alignac."
In any event, whatever really inspired Hazy,
effort to meet these difficulties.
None of these embossed type
methods survives today except Moon
type. Invented by a blind English-
man, Dr. William Moon, this way
still fills the special needs of older
people whose touch is not good
enough to read Braille's raised dots.
The revolutionary idea of re-
presenting letters by raised dots did
not come from Louis Braille, how-
ever, but from Charles Barbier de la
Serre, a French Army officer in the
Signal Corps. Barbier devised a
system of"night writing"for
soldiers to communicate with one
another in the field after dark.
He then thought of applying it to
the blind and presented his system
to the Institute for the Young Blind
in Paris. Barbier's night writing
had 12 dots arranged in various posi-
tions and could be punched on to
paper. The Institute tried it out
and adopted it as a supplementary
teaching method.
But Barbier's system was compli-
cated. It occupied too much space
and was cumbersome for fingers ;
also it had to be deciphered, since
it was a code and not an alphabet.
Braille, a master in the Institute
at the time, became interested in the
idea. As a teacher, he saw its draw-
backs for spending and punctuation.
But the system could at least be
written since Barbier had also devis-
ed the metal frame for punching
the dots on paper. He set to work
to try to simplify it and make it
more easily usable by the fingers of
a blind man.
He reduced the 12-dot squares to
six. The six dots could be felt by
the finger tip at one go. Dropping
the idea of ciphers, Braille decided
to work out various combinations of
the dots to form the alphabet. He
arranged the six dots in three pairs,
one above the other, as in a domino.
"It has been said,"Pierre Henri
wrote,"that the reason why Louis
Braille's system has proved superior
to all other forms of writing for the
blind is that it bore the stamp of
genius. To put it more simply, it
results from a combination of skill
with patient and methodical labour.
Only a blind man could have ar-
ranged dots in groups which exactly
correspond to the requirements of
the sense of touch. Reduce the
number of dots, and the available
signs become obviously insufficient ;
add to their number, and the sign
can no longer be covered by the
finger tip, nor so easily read.
"Braille did not rest content with
giving an alphabet to the blind. From the
outset, by allotting double or triple values to
each sign, he presented a system of musical
notation, a set of elementary mathematical
symbols, and a system of shorthand so that the
blind could satisfy not only their desire for
culture, but also their professional needs."
Braille died on January W, 1852 with no idea
that his system would be universally adopted
by blind people in every part of the world.
Even in his own school he had great difficulty
in getting his method recognized and used.
Only after his death was it officially adopted in
French schools for the blind.
Today, without the Braille system, the world's
7, 000, 000 sightless would be deprived of the
most powerful key to human freedom and
scholarship ever devised for the blind.
it was with this new method that he decided to
try to teach other blind children. In it8/1, he
opened the world's first school for blind chil-
dren-the Institute for Young Blind, which
Louis Braille was to enter : 3 ;) years afterwards
- and by the end of its first year it put the first
embossed books at the finger tips of the blind.
His Institute is still in existence today in
Paris.
Hauy's system, however, remained difficult
to read by touch, and practically impossible to
write. Changes and improvements were con-
stantly being made in different countries in an

## [Page 11](https://.../courier/070990engo.pdf#page=11) 0

### 70997: Conflict about six raised dots

MARCH 1952 Page I I-UNESCO COURIER
BETWEEN the time the Institute for
the Young Blind of Paris originally
published louis Braille's system of
simple raised dots in 1829, and the re-
quest made to Unesco in 1949 to help
rationalize the Babel in Braille usage in
many parts of the world, 120 years have
elapsed.
The first 50 years witnessed a stubborn,
last-ditch battle by conservative groups to
maintain the old forms of embossing.
Then came 70 years during which the ori-
ginal Braille method had to compete
with modified and reconstructed forms of
itself.
Almost from the start, enthusiasts of
the Braille idea in many. countries began
juggling the dots around in different com-
binations. Soon the same patterns of six
dots came to be used to express different
letters not only in different languages but
even in the same language.For over 70 years, on both sides of the
Atlantic, a virtual civil war was fought
between the numerous adaptations of
Braille, with the blind themselves some-
times forgotten in the din.
In Great Britain, for example, the Bible
had already been printd in no fewer than
five systems by 1868. In the same year,
Dr. Thomas R. Armitage, together with a
group of other blind men, founded the
British and Foreign Blind Association
(now the National Institute for the Blind)
which was to play an important role in
printing and disseminating Braille books
and furthering the cause of Braille
throughout the world. After a study of
the various British types, the group
decided in favour of the original Braille.
In the United States, three arrangements
came into use. One group adopted French
Braille, as Britain had done. Another
modified many of the signs on the prin-
ciple of the fewest dots to the most fre-
quently recurring letters. A third group
turned the axis of the Braille rectangle
from the vertical to the horizontal.
All three systems had their virtues, but
they created a situation similar to that
which would exist if one third of sighted
Americans today spelt Washiltgton in the
ordinary English way ; another third spelt
it Pxftwqsaq ; and the remainder like this :
- : :...,.,'",,' IS- : :"
In 1918, after a committee had worked
for 15 years, unity was restored with the
decision to return to the original French
Braille. Only in 1932 did an agreement
between the United Kingdom and the
United States fix"Standard English
Braille"as the contracted or abbreviated
form for everyday use throughout the
English-speaking world.
Similar divergent systems introdueed in
German, modern Greek and Hebrew
Brailles also yielded in due time to a
return to the original French.
But there are many scores of major lan-
guages and dialects in the world. Varia-
tions existed in Braille used in Spain and
Portugal and the different Latin American
countries. Because of the added factor of
varied scripts and the absence of any
recognized symbols for letter-sounds not
used in the Latin alphabet, Asian and
African language Braille systems have been
even more erratic in those parts of the
world.
Throughout the later 1940s, movements
towards the establishment of single Braille
systems gained momentum. Governments
began to consider linking the education
of the blind with their wider educational
programmes and discovered for themselves
the chaotic state of Braille adaptations.
These were the circumstances which in
April 1949 led Dr. Humayun Kabir, Joint
Secretary for Education of the Govern-
ment of India, to write to the Director-
General of Unesco to ask whether it would
be possible for Unesco to take up the
question of a single universal script for
the blind.
The Government of India was already
working hard to bring about some form
of unified Braille script for the many
different languages used by its vast pops.
lation.
"In India,"Dr. Kabir wrote,"with its
ten or eleven major languages, the pro-
blem of different Braille scripts has been
one of the main obstacles to the provision
of larger facilities for the education of
the blind... The fact that scripts differ
from country to country has prevented the
production of literature in Braille on a
sufficiently large scale and thus added to
the cost of an already expensive process."
Soon after receiving Dr. Kabir's letter,
Unesco's Executive Board accepted the
task, recognizing that this was a world
problem which came within the scope of
Unesco.
But such a world problem called for
the help of the best specialists. Unesco
made a survey, and chose Sir Clutha
Mackenzie as its consultant to"study the
world Braille situation as it stands, and to
advise Unesco on Braille systems."Sir
Clutha, a New Zealander who lost his sight
in the Gallipoli campaign in 1915, had
become one of the most eminent experts
in Braille.
At Unesco's General Conference in 1949,
the Director-General was instructed"to
organize an international conference with
a view to agreeing on certain international
principles which would allow the greatest
degree of uniformity in Braille and would
improve its rationalization and develop its
extension."
Leading experts from a number of
countries, including eminent blind leaders
and teachers of the blind, met in Paris in
December 1949 as an advisory committee.
Among those present were Professor Pierre
Henri of France, Mr. John Jarvis of the
United Kingdom, Professor Suniti Kumar
Chatterji of India, Captain Shahri
Bekhradnia of Persia, Professor Nikola
Bassili of Egypt, and Miss Marjorie
Hooper of the United States.
The discussion led to unanimous
agreement on a fundamental objective : a
single Braille system should be worked
out, in which each sign would be used
for the same or nearly the same sound 8S
in the original Braille, and would
represent the same letter or fulfil the
same or a similar function.
This paved the way for the Interna-
tional Braille Conference in March 1950.
It was one of the ; :, :,-. t representative
gatherings of specialists in problems of
writing for the blind ever brought
together in a single place and for a
common purpose.
The 21 delegates, 11 of them blind,
represented the sightless in India, Pakis-
tan, Egypt, Malaya, Argentina, Ceylon, the
United Kingdom, Hashemite Jordan,
France, Greece, the United States, China,
Brazil and Japan. The famous blind-
mute American woman, Helen Keller,
attended one of the sessions, and spoke
of the work of the meeting as a historic
milestone in the history of the blind.
She was riot exaggerating. For the
result of the meeting was to bring blind
readers of all languages closer than seeing
readers to a single script for the whole
world. The delegates decided that it
was both desirable and practicable to
create a broadly uniform Braille system
for all languages and scripts. This would
be known as World Braille.
In it, a single symbol would be pro-
vided for each visual letter. The sound
value of the symbol would be identical
with that of the visual letter of the alpha-
bet of the particular language. Thus,
World Braille would be a complete
tactile representation of visual scripts.
This would mean a close degree of Uni-
formity in each language group, and a the
maximum degree of consistency among
the various Braille systems.
The Conference succeeded in taking a
number of practical and concrete steps
toward creating World Braille. One was
agreement that Braille should read
always from left to right. Represen-
tatives of the Perso·Arabic languages
spoken in Hashemite Jordan, Egypt, Per-
sia, Pakistan, Iraq and Malaya decided to
suggest to all countries in their linguistic
group that the method of reading from
right to left be abandoned. A spokesman
for modern Hebrew concurred in the
recommendation.
Another achievement was an agreement
on uniform Chinese Braille based on
Mandarin, but keeping a degree of sound
relationship with the traditional Braille,
Still other agreements were to recommend
that mathematical and chemical symbols
be represented more uniformly throughout
the world ; that uniformity be restored
and maintained in punctuation signs ; and
that the degree of uniformity be extended
in musical notation.
Many formidable obstacles arising from
Braille codes built on traditional practices
in visual scripts tied to historical, reli-
gious and sentimental backgrounds were
overcome. Spokesmen for various groups
of Braille readers expressed, in the name
of uniformity, a willingness to sacrifice
that which had already been learned and
to begin all over again.
Although a truly phonetic World
Braille was not yet deemed practicable
for general purposes, the Conference
suggested the creation of a panel of
experts to suggest ways of extending the
use of existing phonetic notations. An-
other panel would work out an interna-
tional classification of sounds of letters
and tone marks.
Unesco's General Conference at Flo-
rence in 1950 took further practical steps
toward Braille rationalization. It decided
to compile a World Braille chart ; to
foster the publication of a reference book
on uniformity ; and to help establish a
World Braille Council.
Bit by bit, th. rough hard and consistent
efforts of experts under Unesco's auspices,
the obstacles were gradually removed. A
study of the linking of Braille symbols
with those of the International Phonetic
Association was made. A meeting was
held in London of a committee of experts
on the uniform adaptation of Braille to
African tribal languages.
In February 1951 a regional conference
took place in Beirut, Lebanon, devoted to
the problems of Braille uniformity in the
languages of the Middle East, India and
South-East Asia. In November last, a
second regional meeting was held, in
Montevideo, on reducing the differences
among the various Braille methods in use
in the Spanish and Portuguese languages.
Thus, most of the ground work was done.
Finally, Unesco convened a meeting last
December in Paris of representatives of
the various linguistic areas, and of the
different Braille committees and pub-
lishers, to form a consultative committee
for the creation of the World Braille
Council, to be set up this year. It
will be a world agency, centralizing and
helping through expert advice in the
work of rationalizing all varieties of
Braille into a single universal script for
che blind.

## [Page 12](https://.../courier/070990engo.pdf#page=12) 0

### 70999: The Interdependence of civilization

UNESCO COURIER-Page 12 MARCH 1952
THE INTERDEPENDENCE
OR CIVILIZATION
by Professor hands KOHN
INDIVIDUALS grow and develop, spiritually and morally,by contact. The same holds true of nations and
civilizations. In the primitive stage peoples live as
strictly separated entities. They jealously guard their
"own"civilization, their"original"traditions, protecting
them from"alien"influences. But with the progress of
history barriers give way to a growing cross-fertilization
of civilizations ; meeting the challenge of other cultures
they diversify their own and liberate it from limiting
shackles by assimilating and adapting outside influences,
often in a complex give-and-take process. The more in
the open society grows, the further it advances towards
unity of mankind.
Buddhism in its vitality spread its message to China
and Tibet, to Japan and Thailand, to Ceylon and Bali,
everywhere vivifying and transforming the native civiliza-
tions and permeating them with the same attitudes.
Even more penetrating was the spread of Greek
civilization after Alexander the Great, who in his brief
career was inspired by the hope of uniting the peoples
of the earth in a new peaceful order based upon the
community of civilization. He bade Greeks and barba-
rians, as Plutarch wrote,"to consider as their fatherland
the whole inhabited earth, and as akin to them all good
men."The Stoics developed this attitude into a
philosophy, and the Romans made the spread of a
uniform civilization throughout the then-known world
possible. This civilization was no longer Greek ; it had
absorbed Oriental and Roman elements, with a new
emphasis upon humanitas, the human quality in every
man and the essential oneness of mankind. This cross-
fertilization of civilizations made the spread of
Christianity, and later of Islam, possible. The latter,
originally the creed of desert Arabs, became a World
factor by assimilating Greek and Persian civilizations.
THE flowering of Christianity in the High MiddleAges, with its universities, poetry and chivalry, was
an outgrowth of its closer contacts with the world
of Islam. Arab philosophy transmitted to the West the
wisdom of Greece ; the court of Frederick II in Sicily,
who admired Mohammedan civilization for the greater
freedom of its intellectual atmosphere, showed the first
symptoms of modern government ; the Crusaders brought
home from the Levant sometimes a deep respect for the
wealth and form of the alien civilization which they found
there. It was this very recognition of the interdependence
of civilization and the willingness to become open to the
influence of alien cultures which made the great advance
of the West possible. It was the increasing withdrawal
from open contact and intercourse which weakened Islam
and Eastern Christianity. Around the year 1000 the
leadership had been theirs, by 1500 it had definitely
shifted to the West.
In the following five hundred years this leadership
became more pronounced by the growing eagerness to
explore other civilizations, to become enriched by this
contact, and to visualize the world more and more as an
open society in which the intercourse of ideas and the
flow of goods should be untrammelled and continuous.
It began with the fifteenth century, when Western
scholars eagerly learned from the Greeks who had left
Constantinople after its fall to the Turks ; it found a
climax in the eighteenth century, when Far Eastern
wisdom and art was joyfully and respectfully received in
the West, and its intellectuals turned to the newly
discovered"primitive"civilizations for inspiration. Nor
did Western civilization tend to dissociate into closed
entities proud of their.'originality."Educated men
found their cultural fulfilment in Latin or French, and
scholars and diplomats could meet in understanding
without the help of translators. The great achievement
of the West, the recognition of individual liberty and
free inquiry, was due to the interplay and inter-
dependence of the Low Countries-where Grotius,
Descartes and Locke wrote, and where Pierre Bayle
launched in 1684 his Nouvelles de fa République des
Lettres-and England, with its Puritan and Glorious
revolutions, of the Anglo-Americans in the virgin lands
across the Atlantic, and of France, where the English
concepts of the rights of the individual and the
limitations of government were transformed into a
universal message for every man and citizen.
Germany's greatest writer, Goethe, stressed always this
interdependence of civilization. He acknowledged his
deep indebtedness to"alien"cultures which to him were
part of the one great patrimony ; he had hardly any
sympathy for, or interest in, the German struggle of his
time for"liberation"from the French"invader."In
his old age he expressed his admiration for French
culture, and he created the term Weltliteratur, world
literature, as a meeting ground for the good in all civili-
zations and the nursery for the writers in all tongues.
He did not confine himself to the West, though in
many ways he was one of the representative men of
Western civilization ; his most mature poems were
influenced by his reading of translations from Persian
and Arabic authors and especially the West-Eastern
Divan, where these celebrated lines can be found :
Gottes ist der Orient ! God's own is the Orient !
Gottes ist der Okzident ! God's own) is the Occident !
Nord-und südl/ches Gefande, Northern and southern lands,
Ruht im Frieden selner Rest peacefully in His hands.
[Hande.
The other great Germans of his time, Kant and
Beethoven, Lessing and Schiller, were equally devoid of
any national exclusiveness. But only a few years later
a new emphasis was placed on the"originality"and
uniqueness of national civilizations, on the differences of
cultures ; the more distinct culture became faithful to its
.'own"origins and past and unaffected by"alien"
influences, the more it was thought to be creative. This
cultural self-sufficiency was also applied to the political
field in the stress of undiminished national sovereignty,
and to economic relations, in which national frontiers
became ever mounting barriers. In his Der geschlossene
Handelsstaat, the German philosopher J. G. Fichte
suggested the creation of an ideal society in complete
isolation from the rest of the world so that, by as little
contact as possible with foreigners, it might develop its
national character to the highest degree. While it would
close its frontiers to all commercial exchange with
foreign lands-thus establishing its own state as a
great common work house guaranteeing work to every
citizen-he at least exempted scholarship from this
extreme isolationism. Whatever belongs to the citizen,
The Concept of Man and the Philosophy of Educationin East and West. This was the theme of an inter-
national symposium attended by philosophers, human-
ists. and educators in New Delhi recently. The sympo-
sium, held by Unesco and the Indian Government, studied
this question for one week. Divergencies, of course, arose
but mainly it was found that they did not stem from funda-
mental differences in attitude between the East and West.
The symposium reached general agreement on a number
of basic ideas. Among these we note the following : 1) The
difference between East and West has been over-emphasized
in popular thought. 2) The East is by no means synonymous
with India. 3) Certain differences due to geography, climate
and similar factors must always remain and cannot be chang-
ed. 4) Even so, the typical attitudes of Eastern and Western
man are products of evolution and could be modified, with
time, by cultural contacts. 5) Such contacts are now possible
on a scale unknown before and must be promoted by every
means available. 6) Wars and world conflicts have not
arisen from differences of civilization such as are repres-
ented by East and West, but between the uncivilized and
fanatical minoritieswithinasingle civilization. It is to elimin-
ate such uncivilized minorities by means of education
that East and West might co-operate. 7) The teaching of
science should be more closely related with philosophy
teaching so that scientific work can go hand in hand with
'., Qgnition of its impact on man and society. The inter-
:'_.. Jence of all civilizations-a fact strongly borne out
i the symposium-is discussed by Dr. Hans Kohn, Pro-
fessor of History at the College of the City of New York,
in the stimulating article published on this page.
he wrote, is under the control of the state, but
scholarship belongs to man and not to a citizen. In
the twentieth century this distinction was given up in
some cases of proclaimed self-sufnciency.
The nineteenth century, however, took on the whole
a different course. Society became more and more an
open market place of ideas and goods. Cobden and
Bright spread fervently the gospel of free trade, not
only as an economic doctrine but as a means to build the
interdependence of mankind in peaceful dependence :
"In place of the old local and national institution and
self-sufficiency, we have intercourse in every direction,
universal interdependence of all nations. And as in
material, so also in intellectual production. The intellec-
tual creations of individual nations become common
property. National one-sidedness and narrow-mindedness
become more and more impossible, and from the
numerous national and local literatures there arises a
world literature."
This fertilization by interdependence enriched the
civilizations which tore down the walls separating them.
Peter the Great broke a first window in the wall which
Orthodox Russia had erected in an attempt to isolate
herself from Europe. A century later, a more open
intercourse between the two civilizations slowly began
to emerge, though it continued to be hampered by
prohibitive passport regulations and the fear of contact
predominant in the reign of Nicholas I. But even this
incipient recognition of interdependence bestowed upon
both civilizations a new spiritual energy and broadened
their hozirons to mutual benefit ; the Russian educated
classes began, under European influence, to strive for
liberty under law after the Western model and to fight
the traditional police state autocracy. Europe, on the
other hand, drew a new inspiration from the human
warmth and the deep searchings of the Russian literature,
from Gogol to Dostoevski, from Tolstoi to Chekhov.
CULTURAL inlercourse was hampered in precedingcenturies by distances and the scarcity of means of
communication. All this has changed rapidly
during the last hundred years. Ever new geographic
discoveries and technical inventions have made the globe
one world, thus realizing in space what has long been
recognized by religion and science, the existence of one
mankind. This geographic and biological unity of a
common earth and a common blood finds its spiritual
fulfilment, however, in a plurality and diversity of
civilizations. Each of them has its specific contribution
to make, and complements the others. None of them
exhausts the spiritual potentialities of man. In the inter-
course and interdependence they find the stimulating
challenges preserving them from ossification and
arousing them to the search for new responses to ever-
renewed questions and conquests. Western civilization,
with its emphasis on individual liberty and free inquiry,
would have been much poorer without the recent meeting
with the ascetic morality of Gandhi and the humanistic
wisdom of Rabindranath Tagore, both the fruit of
ancient India's contact with the West. The Mediterranean,
once the centre from which Western civilization radiated,
has witnessed recently at its Western and Eastern
extremities efforts at re-invigoration of the civilizations
of Spain and of Islam, which in the past have played
their great role. All signs portend that an African
civilization arising out of a strong virgin soil under the
fertilization of older civilizations will soon take its place
among these which in clearly recognized and desired
interdependence make their contributions to an open
society based upon freedom and diversity. Such a
society pre-supposes cooperation in the spirit of tolerance.
No civilization must think itself in exclusive possession
of the true way and endowed with an infallible insight
into the course of human history.
Russia's contact with Europe produced suddenly and
almost without precedent a literature of the first
magnitude : its influence radiated back to Europe, and in
its turn fertilized the older literatures.
However, the fact that the interdependence of
civilization releases unprecedented creative energies was
not easily conceded. Many denied it, and Peter the
Great's work formed in the nineteenth century the
subject of much bitter controversy in Russia. An
influential group of Russian patriots, often called the
Slavophiles, regarded his opening-up of intercourse with
Europe as a misfortune for Russia ; it was believed to
have hindered or destroyed a pure indigenous cultural
and spiritual development with exclusive roots in the
peculiar traditions of Russian character and history. The
Slavophiles were convinced that the flowering of Russian
culture demanded an isolation from contact with alien
elements-Russian culture in itself, and only in itself,
contained the seeds for world leadership and world sal-
vation. This exclusive nationalism turned against
Europe and against Slavdom's Western neighbours, the
Germans. Yet even this Slavophilism with all its claims
to self-sufficiency was not an indigenous Russian growth ;
it had developed under the influence of Geiman romantic
thought by simply transferring the anti-cosmopolitanism
and anti-intellectualism of German folk theories to the
Slavs as the bearers of the true spirit. Thus even the
most"independent"movements bear witness to the
interdependence of civilization.
It has not always been clearly seen that the very
insistence upon indigenous development and its unique
and exclusive originality has been the product of cultural
contact and of an erroneous interpretation of the past.
Oriental nationalists have often rejected Western
civilization as an expression of crude materialism
contrasting it with their pure indigenous spiritualism ; in
this attitude they were influenced by Ruskin and other
European critics of certain aspects of Western civilization.
The degree to which cultural isolationism weakens and
destroys a civilization that refuses to recognize cultural
interdependence in a community of nations, can be seen
from the attitude of the Chinese at the beginning of the
nineteenth century. They were then convinced that they
alone had the correct doctrine and knew the true way,
that all others had to learn from them, while they could
gain nothing from alien guidance or influence. From
the towering height of their uncritical self-confidence,
which placed them in the very centre of all civilized
life, they built a wall of isolation around themselves and
refused intercourse with other civilizations on a footing
of equality. As a result Chinese civilization, in spite of
its venerable antiquity and its unsurpassed records of
beauty of form and serenity of wisdom, became
proverbial abroad as the model of fossil pedantry. Only
more recently the intercourse with other civilizations
eagerly sought by the educated youth, re-invigorated the
Chinese civilization. A similar process in other Oriental
countries, from Turkey to the Philippine Islands, inaugur-
ated an entirely new period in the history of Asia.

## [Page 13](https://.../courier/070990engo.pdf#page=13) 0

### 71001: The Temple of Koryuji: unknown treasure of Japanese art

MARCH 1952 Page I 3-UNESCO COURIER
OF all the works of art in the
Temple of Koryuji at Kyoto,
Japan, perhaps the most
graceful and subtle is the
statue of Miroku-Bosatsu (shown
here). Made of carved wood and
covered with gold lacquer, the figure
(also known as Maitreya Bodhisattva
in Sanskrit) dates back to the Hakuho
Period of the 7th century and
represents the deity worshipped by
"Buddhists as the future Messiah who
will descend from heaven to earth to
save mankind. Until recently this
was the only treasure of the Koryuji
Temple ever made public. The
photographs which follow on the next
pages are the first ever taken, and
they have never before been published.
 
M
Unknown treasure
of Japanese art

## [Page 14](https://.../courier/070990engo.pdf#page=14) 0

### 71001: The Temple of Koryuji: unknown treasure of Japanese art

UNESCO COURIER-Page 14 MARCH 1952
Prince Shotoku Taishi, in whose honour the Koryuji Temple was founded the year after his death,
622 A. D., inspired a series of giant coloured drawings on silk portraying his life. Each panel is 16 ft.
by 9 ft. Above, portion of one of drawings executed during the Murumachi Period (15-16th century).
Only ten sets of
these photos are
..
In existence
JAPAN is a treasure house of Oriental art-but
much of it has remained unseen and unknown.
Priceless glories in the past were so jealously
guarded in certain temples and monasteries
that most people were never even allowed to look at
them ; and, until recently, making copies or keeping
records of these treasures was generally forbidden.
As a result, when earthquakes, fire, war or other
disaster destroyed such temples, not only was re-
construction virtually impossible, but the lack of
details left a gap in history, religion and art that can
never be filled. And there have been many big
disasters to artistic masterpieces-for instance, the loss
by fire in 1948 of the magnificent main hall of the
Koryuji pagoda, one of the country's finest.
Fortunately, the contents of Koryuji had been well
documented, so that what the flames devoured was not
really lost for ever. But such is not always the case.
Some 25 miles away, in Kyoto, art lovers were not
only horrified about the Koryuji fire ; they were
alarmed, too. For Kyoto is proud of its treasures.
Capital of Japan from 794 to 1869, it is noted for
its magnificent temples, shrines and monuments, and
for numerous craftsmen who faithfully keep up the
fine traditions of Japanese art. But nothing in Kyoto
is more famed throughout Japan than Koryuji, one of
the world's oldest wooden temples.
Originally erected in honour of Prince Shotoku (572-
621 A. D.), the temple was rebuilt in 1165, and partial
repairs were made in 1558-59. Its outstanding feature
is a subtle, refined and graceful statue of the future
Buddist Messiah, Miroku-Bosatsu, believed to have
been sculptured by the prince himself.
The prince too has his statues in the temple, and
it is still the custom for Japan's newly-crowned
emperors to send their coronation robes to Koryuji to
dress one of these royal memorials.
Yet, even at Koryuji, virtually no records were kept
to indicate to posterity what it was and all that it
contained. If disaster overcame Koryuji, it would be
lost in every sense of the word.
The Kyoto Unesco Co-operative Association there-
fore arranged to produce a photographic record of
Koryuji in 1950. In all, 184 photographs were
commissioned of its treasures.
Only ten sets were made, however. One each went
to the Emperor of Japan, the Supreme Allied Com-
mander in Japan, the Louvre Museum in Paris,
the British Museum in London, the Library of Congress
in Washington, the Boston Museum of Fine Art, the
Tokyo National Museum, the Kyoto Museum and the
Kyoto Unesco Association. The tenth was sent to
Unesco headquarters in Paris ; and the photographs on
these pages, selected from the Unesco set, are published
here for the first time. RICHARD O'FARRELL,
One of Koryuji's wood statues of Umoregi-Jizo-Bosatsu,
the patron god of children, is only the height of a
child : 3 ft. 3 ins. A work from the ninth century.
Carved and coloured wooden figure of
Hata-no-Kawakatsu, the god who founded
the famed Temple of Koryuji in 622 A. D.
Upper part of the image of Makira, one of the Twelve
Deities, and an attendant to the Messiah of the future,
Miroku-Bosatsu. This statue was carved in the year 1064.

## [Page 15](https://.../courier/070990engo.pdf#page=15) 0

### 71001: The Temple of Koryuji: unknown treasure of Japanese art

MARCH) 952 Page 15-UNESCO COURIER
SYMBOL OAF WISDOM
Hands of Amida-Nyorai, one of the outstanding figures in the long history of Buddhism, show the influence
of Indian art on Japan. Position of hands symbolizes the teaching of wisdom through inner purity, which
leads to tranquillity. Made of carved wood covered with gold lacquer, the statue dates from the ninth century.
Detail of upper body of Miroku-Bosatsu, which reveals the
exquisite beauty of the hand and the purity of expression
of the face. The head used to be crowned with a diadem.
Twelfth century image of a god. carved in
wood. The existence of this figure only
became generally known eleven years ago.
Head of a goddess. This masterpiece in carved
natural wood, dating from the later Heian period (12th
century), was only discovered on December 28, 1941.

## [Page 16](https://.../courier/070990engo.pdf#page=16) 0

### 71001: The Temple of Koryuji: unknown treasure of Japanese art

UNESCO COURIER-Page 16 MARCH 1952
MPv
MM
One of the richest yet least known storehouses of Japanese art is the wooden Temple of
Koryuji situated on the western outskirts of Kyoto. Here are preserved the treasures produced
by brilliant Japanese sculptors and artists between the 7th and 15th centuries. The history
of Japanese sculpture may be said to date from the introduction of Buddhism from Korea
in 552 A. D. less than a century before the construction of the Koryuji Temple. It is surprising
that so many of the sculptures of Japan still exist since they were often carved in wood and
: 1ave been housed in wooden buildings exposed to recurrent conflagrations. Their preserva-
tion has been mainly due to the important part that works of art have played in religion and to
the reverent care accorded to them. In spite of this a large number were destroyed by fire and
earthquakes. By 1897 systematic State protection was undertaken and thousands of works of
art were classed as"national treasures."Later, photographic records were made of them.
No photographs of the art treasures in the Temple of Koryuji were taken, however, until 1950
and these masterpieces have therefore remained practically unknown outside Japan up to
today. On pages 13, 14 and 15 we present for the first time a few examples which illustrate
the striking grace and beauty preserved at Koryuji. Above, a rear view of the statue of Miroku-
Bosatsu, the Buddhist Messiah of the future, formerly the principal figure in the main hall
of thrs'much-revered Temp) e. A different statue of the same deity is published on page 13.