# [074803](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/074803engo.pdf) 2

## [Page 1](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/074803engo.pdf#page=1) 0

### IGNORE

The Unesco Q)UrÍer A window
open on the world

## [Page 2](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/074803engo.pdf#page=2) 0

### IGNORE

TREASURES
OF
WORLD ART
^%
Photo © Luc Joubert-Musée des Arts Africains et Océaniens, Paris
Satirical mask
The Bapende (or Pende) people, who live In south-west Zaïre between the Kwango and Kasai Rivers, are
prolific carvers of masks, notably the distinctive mbuya masks which are worn during circumcision rites.
Mbuya masks are usually caricatures of comic characters such as the idler and the self-indulgent man.
During the circumcision ceremonies they are donned by dancers who through song and mimicry satirize
these figures of fun. Shown here, wooden mbuya mask (63 cms. high) of an old man.
Zaïre

## [Page 3](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/074803engo.pdf#page=3) 0

### IGNORE

The Unesco COUlîer
MAY 1978 31ST YEAR
PUBLISHED IN 18 LANGUAGES
English
French
Spanish
Russian
German
Arabic
Japanese Dutch
Italian
Hindi
Tamil
Hebrew
Persian
Portuguese
Turkish
Urdu
Catalan
Malaysian
Published monthly by UNESCO
The United Nations
Educational, Scientific
and Cultural Organization
Sales and distribution Offices
Unesco, Place de Fontenoy, 75700 Paris
Subscription rates
1 year: 35 French Francs
2 years: 58 FF
Binder for a year's issues: 24 FF
The UNESCO COURIER is published monthly, except in
August and September when it is bi-monthly (11 issues a
year). For list of distributors see inside back cover.
Individual articles and photographs not copyrighted may
be reprinted providing the credit line reads "Reprinted from
the UNESCO COURIER", plus date of issue, and three
voucher copies are sent to the editor. Signed articles re¬
printed must bear author's name. Non-copyright photos
will be supplied on request. Unsolicited manuscripts
cannot be returned unless accompanied by an interna¬
tional reply coupon covering postage. Signed articles
express trie opinions of the authors and do not necessarily
represent the opinions of UNESCO or those of the editors
of. the UNESCO COURIER. Photo captions and head¬
lines are written by the Unesco Courier staff.
The Unesco Courier is produced in microform (micro¬
film and/or microfiche) by: (1) University Microfilms
(Xerox), Ann Arbor. Michigan 48100. U.S.A. ; (2) N.C.R.
Microcard Edition, Indian Head, Inc., 111 West 40th
Street. New York, U.S.A. ; (3) Bell and Howell Co..
Old Mansfield Road, Wooster. Ohio 44691. U.S.A.
The Unesco Courier is indexed monthly in the Readers'
Guide to Periodical Literature, published by H. W.
Wilson Co., New York, and in Current Contents -
Education, Philadelphia. U.S.A.
Editorial Office
Unesco, Place de Fontenoy, 75700 Paris - France
Editor-in-Chief
René Caloz
Assistant Editor-in-Chief
Olga Rodel
Managing
English
French
Spanish
Russian
German
Arabic
Japanese
Italian
Hindi
Tamil
Hebrew
Persian
Dutch
Portuguese
Turkish
Urdu
Catalan
Malaysian
Editors
Edition : Howard Brabyn (Paris)
Edition :
Edition : Francisco Fernandez-Santos (Paris)
Edition : Victor Goliachkov (Paris)
Edition : Werner Merkli (Berne)
Edition : Abdel Moneim El Sawi (Cairo)
Edition : Kazuo Akao (Tokyo)
Edition : Maria Remiddi (Rome)
Edition : H. L. Sharma (Delhi)
Edition : M. Mohammed Mustafa (Madras)
Edition : Alexander Broido (Tel Aviv)
Edition : Fereydoun Ardalan (Teheran)
Edition : Paul Morren (Antwerp)
Edition : Benedicto Silva (Rio de Janeiro)
Edition : Mefra Arkin (Istanbul)
Edition : Hakim Mohammed Said (Karachi)
Edition : Cristian Rahola (Barcelona)
Edition : Azizah Hamzah (Kuala Lumpur)
Assistant Editors
English Edition : Roy Malkin
French Edition :
Spanish Edition : Jorge Enrique Adoum
Research : Christiane Boucher
Illustrations: Ariane Bailey
Layout and Design : Robert Jacquemin
All correspondence should be addressed
to the Editor-in-Chief in Paris
S3"
page
4 BEFORE WE ARE SIX
by Henri Dieuzeide
MILESTONES
10 SCHOOL IS OTHER PEOPLE
The African village community is one big family of teachers
by A. Babs Fafunwa
16 WHAT'S IN A GAME?
How the children of Zaire play to learn
by Kimenga Masoka
18 SHOULD WE RE-THINK THE PRE-SCHOOL SYSTEM?
by Liliane Lurçat
22 LOVE IS NOT ENOUGH
by Burton L. White
24 INDIA'S MOBILE CRECHES
by Meera Mahadevan
Zl FAMILY AND STATE-A SHARED RESPONSIBILITY
by Aleksandr V. Zaporozhets
28 IT'S NEVER TOO EARLY TO LEARN
by Boris Nikitin
30 JEAN-JACQUES ROUSSEAU
The children's champion
by Mohammed A. Sinaceur
31 WHO TEACHES THE TEACHERS?
by Dorothy Fleming
33 LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
34 IN BRIEF
2 TREASURES OF WORLD ART
ZAIRE: Satirical mask
l-IV NEWS FROM UNESCO
Special supplement
Cover
Like a chick emerging from an egg, this tiny
Japanese girl climbs through a hole in a
calligraffiti-covered wall at the Osaka World
Exposition. Recent educational research
seems to suggest that the pre-school years
from 0 to 6 are the crucial period for the
development of basic personality and
intelligence and that for all of us the writing
is on the wall before we are six.
Photo Jouanne © Atlas Photo, Paris

## [Page 4](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/074803engo.pdf#page=4) 0

### 45931: Before we are six: in ten years' time there will be 900 million children of pre-school age in the world

Before
we are six
In ten years time there will be 900 million children
of pre-school age in the world
by Henri Dieuzeide

### EDITORIAL

In most countries, formal
education systems recognize the
child only from the age of 5 to 6,
when compulsory schooling
normally begins. Yet from birth to
the age of 6 the child's
development is much more rapid
than at any other period, both
psychologically and physically.
From the age of 2 or 3, though
still largely dependent upon
adults and under their guidance,
the child begins to establish
relationships outside the
immediate family and becomes
capable of developing certain
forms of independent behaviour.
A process of assimilation begins
through which the child learns to
live. In this issue, the Unesco
Courier examines the ways in
which various pre-school
institutions throughout the world
help this process along and
contribute to the all-round
development of the child's
personality.

## IGNORE

### 45931: Before we are six: in ten years' time there will be 900 million children of pre-school age in the world

THE concept of pre-school education,
as we know and accept It today, is
the culmination of a long Interna¬
tional effort representing a century and a
half of research, experiment and achieve¬
ment. The phenomenal Increase In the
number of pre-primary school Institutions
since the end of the Second World War
has been largely Inspired by these achieve¬
ments and by the notion that children
should be treated as complete personalities
and accepted, respected and appreciated
as individuals.
A variety of forms of pre-schooling have
been devised: Indian Balwadies, or rural
schools, derived from very ancient rural
institutions, Sudanese Khalvas, nurseries
run by religious communities, the recently
Introduced British playgroups, French
écoles maternelles, German Kindergarten,
and other types of nursery school, all bear
witness to the desire of communities to
help the Infant to acquire, during the early
years, a firm foundation for later life.
Such systems vary considerably in scope
ranging from the Sabatinas in Salvador
which bring together the children of the
district or village once a week, to the Israeli
kibbutzim In which all the small children of
the community are looked after 24 hours a
day. They also depend on a wide range of
different bodies, from local authorities,
governments, companies and movements
to private groups (which form almost a
third of the total).
HENRI DIEUZEIDE is director of Unesco's divi¬
sion of structures, content, methods and tech¬
niques of education, and director of Prospects,
Unesco's quarterly review of education. He was
formerly director of educational radio and tele¬
vision in France and a department head at
France's National Pedagogical Institute. He is
the author of several books on education,
including Les Techniques Audio-Visuelles de
l'Enseignement (Audio-Visual Techniques in
Education) which has been translated into six
languages.
The principles on which they operate are
everywhere more or less the same. The
children regularly attend these Institutions
where they are helped to express them¬
selves better in their own language, to pick
up the elementary rules of hygiene and
good health, to discover rhythmical self-
expression, to dance, sing and draw, to
mould sand and model clay, to make
objects, to observe nature, to respect the
plants and animals around them, to sort
and classify objects by type and by shape,
and above all to live together and become
responsible.
It is estimated that some 40 million chil¬
dren under six now attend such establish¬
ments, three times as many as 20 years
ago (1). In many countries the tradition is
by no means recent. Infant schools In
Europe go back to the early 19th century,
to the eve of the Industrial revolution which
saw the start of a period of research and
experiment in education beginning with
Friedrich Froebel (Germany), who was
born in 1782, and continuing with Ovide
Decroly (Belgium), Ellen Key (Sweden) and
Maria Montessori (Italy), who died as
recently as 1952. But there were precur¬
sors of the present system many centuries
ago, such as the rural nurseries of Asia and
Koranic schools in Moslem countries.
It is true that, before Froebel, pre-
schooling was the prerogative of the elite;
the most privileged social classes, and
indeed the richer countries, found it easier
to obtain, or provide, pre-primary educa¬
tion than their poorer neighbours. But the
principle of such education is now univer¬
sally accepted, and regarded increasingly
as an essential tool for the democratization
of society.
But since Pastor Johan Friederich Ober- \
lin opened the first nursery schools In 1767 I
(1 ) This figure does not include the People's Republic of
China, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and
the Socialist Republic of Vietnam.

## [Page 5](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/074803engo.pdf#page=5) 0

### 45931: Before we are six: in ten years' time there will be 900 million children of pre-school age in the world

Stepping out into the future, this Yemeni child is one of the world's
765 million children under the age of six. Recent research suggests
that these are the crucial formative years with 50 per cent of the
attainments that go to make up the seventeen-year-old's general
Intelligence level being acquired before the age of four and a further
30 per cent between the ages of four and eight.
7
<_
v5*>3
^

## [Page 6](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/074803engo.pdf#page=6) 0

### 45931: Before we are six: in ten years' time there will be 900 million children of pre-school age in the world

t in some of the remoter villages of Alsace,
the facts of the situation have changed
with the growth of society.
The natural family unit that used to
assume responsibility for the first steps in
education has been unavoidably disrupted
by the industrialization of certain societies
or by the desire in the rest of the world for
economic development. In most countries,
the majority of women leave their home, or
their family business (whether it be a farm
or a workshop), in order to work else¬
where, either regularly or seasonally. A
link-up between family and society has
become essential, particularly since this
very process of development makes new
and more urgent demands on the content
of pre-primary education.
In Hungary, where women make up 44
per cent of the working population, crè¬
ches and kindergartens offer day care with
meals, seasonal summer day care or full
board six days a week. In Senegal, the fact
that the rainy season requires women to
work long hours in the rice paddies has
resulted in the setting up of special nursery
schools for two months of the year. In
India, tens of thousands of mothers who
work on building sites leave their children
in mobile crèches during the day. (see page
24).
All child psychologists, moreover, now
agree on the enormous bearing that the
first four to five years of a child's life have
on the formation of its personality, as
regards both the development of logical
and linguistic skills, emotional balance, and
ability to establish social relationships.
Purely from the point of view of intellec¬
tual development, recent research seems
to Indicate that some 50 per cent of the
knowledge which goes to make up a gen¬
eral intelligence level by the age of seven¬
teen Is already acquired by the age of four,
while the following 30 per cent is acquired
between the ages of four and eight. Most
of the time spent in school by pupils bet¬
ween eight and seventeen Is therefore
devoted to acquiring the remaining 20 per
cent, which suggests that the way resour¬
ces are currently being allocated to each
type of school needs to be reviewed.
Some economists even go so far as to
claim that if the educational authorities
systematically channelled the appropriate
funds into pre-schooling they would make
a substantial saving on subsequent educa¬
tional expenditure. However that may be, it
is now clear that, so long as its cost can be
kept within reasonable bounds, pre-
primary education could be a decisive fac¬
tor In bringing about greater justice and in
offering all pupils a better chance of suc¬
ceeding in life, precisely because it would
help alleviate the social and cultural handi¬
caps affecting many children (inability to
handle language or abstractions, malnutri¬
tion, lack of medical care, the failure to
detect physical handicaps, and so on).
But the task ahead ¡s a daunting one, if
only because of the sheer scale of the
problem. There are at present 765 million
children under six in the world and in ten
years time there will be nearly 900 million.
This means that of ten children aged bet¬
ween three and six only one now enjoys ^
any kind of organized pre-schooling. f


### 45935: Milestones: from birth to 3 years, from 3 to 6 years

Milestones
Despite very wide variations in geographical environment, material living
conditions, social and cultural background, children throughout the world
present a number of characteristics in common and pass through the same
stages of development. The table of development "milestones" given here
is taken from a study carried out by the International Children's Centre at
Unesco's request. But since children are individuals, the acquisitions listed
are not milestones that a child must pass at exactly the age stated. They are
points of reference in the development of motor activity, sensory perception,
speech and relations with other people. Many others could be cited which
parents will discover for themselves through observation and experience.
Photo © Monique Manceau, Paris

## [Page 7](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/074803engo.pdf#page=7) 0

### 45935: Milestones: from birth to 3 years, from 3 to 6 years

FROM BIRTH TO 3 YEARS
From birth to 3 months
spends most of the time sleeping
learns to follow a moving object with his eyes, look at a face, and smile in response
reacts to noise
recognizes his mother (visually, but especially by sense of smell and hearing and perhaps by sensory
perceptions difficult to define)
involuntarily holds on to an object placed in his hand
burbles spontaneously and responsively
communicates with those around him, reacts to the psychological state of his mother (calm, excited)
From 3 to 6 months
begins to take hold purposely of an object within reach and holds out his hand to an object offered
him
brings objects to his mouth
laughs heartily and utters shouts of pleasure in response to adult's play
begins to look for a lost toy
catches hold of objects not between thumb and index finger, but between the palm and the last four
fingers
From 6 to 9 months
can crawl towards an object or a person
begins to be able to remain upright if he is held in position
grasps small objects between thumb and index finger
amuses himself by throwing objects
utters several syllables without verbal meaning
recognizes the faces of members of his family and may be afraid of strange faces
From 9 to 12 months
can get to his feet unaided and can walk when held by two hands
repeats a sound which he has heard
learns to pronounce two or three words
shows great interest in exploring the world
repeats the syllables which he has pronounced and to which those around him have given a meaning
From 12 to 18 months
walks on his own and explores the house and its surroundings
can pronounce five to ten words
manifests jealousy (tears or gestures of anger) and reactions of rivalry in play with his older brothers
and sisters these normal manifestations of rivalry and even aggressiveness represent his introduc¬
tion to group life
From 18 to 24 months
walks up and down stairs first held by the hand, later alone, supporting himself
indicates his eyes and nose
learns to feed himself
begins to be toilet trained in the daytime (stools, then urine) toilet training greatly depends on cul¬
tural habits; the age may vary
shows great interest in the actions of adults and tries to imitate their movements
From 2 to 3 years
learns to jump, climb, and hop on one foot
develops his speech considerably, using "I" and "me", begins to ask questions
can reproduce a circle on paper or in sand
begins to play properly with other children the age of 2 really marks the beginning of socialization
FROM 3 TO 6 YEARS
From 3 to 4 years
walks around on his own, visits neighbours
learns to dress and undress alone
recognizes two or three colours
speaks intelligibly, can state his name, sex and age
asks many questions
shows affection for younger brothers and sisters
From 4 to 5 years
leaps, jumps, swings
draws a figure with head, principal limbs and parts of the body
copies a square and a triangle
knows how to count his fingers
protests vigorously when prevented from doing what he wants
takes an interest in the activities of adults
From 5 to 6 years
Drawings Saisi, Unesco
knows how to climb trees and dance to music
speaks correctly, stops using childish language
draws a figure with head, trunk, limbs and hands
begins to distinguish right from left, yesterday from tomorrow
takes an interest in the activities of the home and the quarter
takes an interest in the age of young people and old people
detests authority imposed on him, and carries out orders slowly
7

## [Page 8](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/074803engo.pdf#page=8) 0

### 45931: Before we are six: in ten years' time there will be 900 million children of pre-school age in the world

Furthermore, certain types of pre-
schooling are over-compartmentalized or
excessively oriented merely towards prepa¬
ration for primary school instead of being
conceived as the first phase In a long pro¬
cess of continuing and all-embracing edu¬
cation.
Lastly, there are certain limitations to the
formulae that have been adopted, possibly
because researchers have failed to examine
closely enough whether the various
systems now being used are not too rigidly
linked to a particular cultural pattern, i.e.



One tenth
of the population
of the world
It's hard work growing up, but even at
rest these boys and girls in a Pakistani day
care centre (left) and a Chinese crèche
(below) are learning to live in society.
Opposite page : A Mayan chief gazes
benevolently across the centuries at a
20th-century Mexican girl at play in the
famous Palenque ruins, Chiapas State,
Mexico. In 1975, there were 327,068,000
Asian and 51,690,000 Latin American
children under the age of five, almost a
tenth of the total population of the world.
8

## [Page 9](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/074803engo.pdf#page=9) 0

### 45931: Before we are six: in ten years' time there will be 900 million children of pre-school age in the world

that of the Western world. The educatio¬
nal authorities of the developing countries,
who are keen to develop children capable
of adjusting to rapid change and displaying
flexible and creative behavioural patterns,
are faced with the problem of how best to
achieve a smooth transition between a
child's original culture and the constantly
changing modern culture in which he will
have to live.
It has now become obvious that the pre-
schooling system in Its present form can¬
not be extended to all three- to six-year-
olds In countries with limited resources
because of the tremendous cost involved.
Although no-one would dispute that pre-
schooling is now a reasonable necessity,
not a luxury, and although educationalists
are more or less agreed on the intellectual
and moral principles on which it should be
based, fresh approaches and ingenious
new systems still need to be defined almost
everywhere if pre-primary education is to
be more closely geared to the social and
cultural environment as a whole.
This is why an increasing number of
countries are now striving, with the help of
Unesco, to identify and co-ordinate exis¬
ting material and human resources with the
aim of developing "streamlined" systems
of mass pre-primary education. They want
to determine, for instance, how at local
level the community can be made more
aware of the needs of childhood through
the insertion of educational content into all
the groupings of young children it organi¬
zes. They are also keen to define a
childhood policy likely to inspire the same
concerted educational effort from all sorts
of establishments, whether they be crè¬
ches, day nurseries, infant schools, educa¬
tional centres, religious institutions, or wel¬
fare centres. This raises institutional diffi¬
culties when, for example, a Ministry of
Health may vie with a Ministry of Education
for the responsibility of co-ordinating acti¬
vities for the very young, or a Ministry of
Social Affairs may be pitted against a
Ministry of the Family.
There is also a psychological problem
between the various people involved at the
local community level; doctors may feel
they have overall authority where a child's
future is concerned, but such responsibility
is often claimed by social workers, while
teachers are not infrequently regarded as
subordinates whose duty it is to bow to the
authority of the specialists. Experience
shows, however, that these problems can
be solved when they are tackled with deter¬
mination.
Another crucial factor is increased parti¬
cipation by families in the educational pro¬
cess. It is not enough merely to persuade
mothers to comply with the basic rules of
nutrition and hygiene; attempts must be
made to create within each family the
material and psychological conditions most
likely to encourage the child's intellectual,
emotional and social development (new
types of behaviour, play, exchanges, envi¬
ronment).
In many South American and Asian
countries, there ¡s a tendency to turn the
pre-primary teacher into a social action
worker whose influence extends over the
whole community. In this context, certain
"parents' school" schemes, which use the
radio to broadcast regular advice to
mothers or to nursery school teachers on
educational techniques, have made an
important contribution to pre-primary edu¬
cation.
This approach is usually combined with
the use of communal buildings to house
classes of children, the manufacture of the
necessary educational furniture and toys
with cheap locally produced material, and
the recruitment of various types of volun¬
tary staff who are given a brief training
period focused on the psychological deve¬
lopment, education and health of very
young children.
The people making up such staff can
vary, depending on the country, from ado¬
lescents and students to non-working
wives, retired school-teachers and grand¬
parents. They are sometimes called upon
to assist a professional teacher, but when
vast mobilization efforts are undertaken, as
for instance in Peru, they occasionally have
to be able to cope with the full range of
everyday educational tasks. Experience has
shown almost everywhere that the merits
of such schemes are not merely economic;
parents are more willing to accept a type of
pre-schooling that associates the family
with the community.
The purpose of Unesco's action in this
field Is not to encourage communal pre-
primary education at all costs and to the
detriment of the family. Aware as it is of
the difficult problems that have to be faced
daily by parents all over the world, Unesco
is working hand in hand with governments
and educationalists to strengthen and per¬
fect schemes that can combine and harmo¬
nize the reciprocal roles and influences of
family and school.
In recent years, through meetings of
experts (USA, Czechoslovakia, Malaysia),
publications such as The Child from Birth
to Six Years Old and World Survey of Pre¬
school Education, its advisory servi¬
ces in Sierra Leone, Ghana, Nigeria,
Venezuela and Mexico, the encourage¬
ment of pilot schemes (Sri Lanka, Jordan),
and co-operation with UNICEF and the
relevant non-governmental organizations
such as the World Organization for Early
Childhood Education, Unesco has sought
to encourage the idea that pre-school edu¬
cation is a real priority for its Member Sta¬
tes and, above all, to convince them of the
need to summon up the necessary determi¬
nation and imagination to devise ever more
efficient forms of action in this area.
With all this in mind, Unesco hopes to
make International Year of the Child
(1979) which aims to encourage Member
States to increase their efforts in this field,
for instance, by setting up national com¬
missions for children an important stage
in the development of pre-schooling invol¬
ving the whole community and suited to
the needs and resources of each country.
Henri Dieuzeide

## [Page 10](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/074803engo.pdf#page=10) 0

### IGNORE

Photo © G. Bern, Pans


### 45967: School is other people: for African children the village community is one big family of teachers

School
is other people

## [Page 11](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/074803engo.pdf#page=11) 0

### 45967: School is other people: for African children the village community is one big family of teachers

For African children the village community
is one big family of teachers
by A. Babs Fafunwa
LEARNING starts early for children In
Africa, and more often than not
begins at the mother's breast. Fed
regularly, weaned when the time is ripe,
the African child spends the first five years
of its life in a close relationship with its
mother. During this early stage, the child Is
reared by the mother, not by the family as a
whole.
In a polygamous African family, there
may be several "mothers"; and they all play
a part in caring for the youngest genera¬
tion. But ultimate responsibility for each
child lies with its true mother, who carries it
on her back wherever she goes, puts it to
bed, looks after it when it is ill, and teaches
it to speak. Full of curiosity, the baby wat¬
ches her every gesture, and learns to inter¬
pret her smiles, her frowns and her tears.
Little by little, this lively curiosity reaches
out beyond the mother's world. Some¬
where between the ages of four and six,
the grandparents and sometimes uncles
and aunts begin to take part in the chil¬
dren's education, sending them on little
errands, teaching them to be obedient and
to respect their elders (this is a very impor¬
tant matter in African society), and to
A. BABS FAFUNWA, Nigerian educator, is
professor of education at the University of Ife,
Ibadan, and was formerly professor and dean of
the faculty of education at the University of
Nigeria, Nsukka. He is the author of several
published works on African education, including
New Perspectives in African Education (Mac-
Millan, Nigeria, 1967) and a History of Education
in Nigeria (Allen and Unwin, London, 1974).
observe certain rules of behaviour. The
grandparents also teach them the history of
their family or of their people.
African education is "global". In other
words, each social institution has a role in
providing the moral and practical teaching
that will enable young boys and girls to
take their rightful place in the community.
The traditional educational system is
based on age-groups, or on affinities within
these groups, whose limits are defined dif¬
ferently by different peoples.
Age is very important to Africans. It con¬
fers economic and social privileges, parti¬
cularly as far as the distribution of prey,
rewards and wealth are concerned. In
many Nigerian ethnic groups, men and
women, too tend to claim that they are
older than they really are.
The objectives of traditional African edu¬
cation are many and varied, but the ulti¬
mate goal is to produce individuals who are
honest, respectful, clever, co-operative
and mindful of the established order. Char¬
acter training is, in fact, the keystone of the
system.
African children love to explore their
immediate surroundings, to observe and
imitate the actions of adults and to discover
new horizons. In this, they are no different
from other children, whether in Europe,
Asia or elsewhere. What distinguishes
them is their way of doing things, and
above all the spontaneity with which, in
societies that have retained their links with
the past, they jump about, climb trees,
dance or move to a rhythm, simply because
their brothers and sisters or their elders are
doing so. No sooner, in fact, have they dis¬
covered their limbs, than they discover
how to use them.
African children perhaps differ from their
European counterparts in that they have
completely untrammelled access to the sti¬
mulating world of music and dance. The
movements of the African dance, in their
infinite variety, offer the best possible
physical exercise for growing bodies. No
teacher or dancing-master is needed: the
children join in naturally, following the
steps of adults or other children. Dancing
and music are also a means of transmitting
the culture of a people, and of performing
together as a group.
In a study of the Yorubas of West Africa,
M.A. Fadipe has described certain practical
aspects of the education of young children:
"As soon as her daughter is of age, it Is
the mother's duty to teach her the rules of
hygienic and well-mannered behaviour
observed by the group. One of the most
important of these rules concerns the use
of the right and the left hand.
"Before the whites brought their culture
to Africa, the use of forks and spoons was
unknown. The right hand was traditionally
used for lifting food to the mouth
and mainly for this reason was forbid¬
den to touch unclean objects...
"A child caught eating before early-
morning ablutionswhich involved at least
washing the face and mouth would be
scolded and punished by an adult member
of the group...
"The 'indirect' education received by the
child in the community is almost as impor¬
tant as that received at school."
"In certain regions of northern Nigeria,"
writes another specialist, "character train¬
ing took many forms. Parents encouraged
healthy rivalry between children of the
same agesometimes as early as the age
of five by organizing wrestling matches
and by setting the children competitive
tasks.
"Fair play was also encouraged; winners
and' losers alike were congratulated when
they played well. The main thing was not
winning and losing, but playing the game.
With the introduction of Islam, the Koranic
schools brought additional elements of
character training. Children were sent to
the Mallam for three or four hours every
afternoon, to learn the Koran by heart,
together with the principles of Islamic
ethics."
Traditional education, as far as
character-building was concerned, was
certainly severe, to say the least. But this
was because of the importance which Afri¬
can society attaches to this aspect of edu¬
cation. The habit of physical exercise,
apprenticeship In a trade, a religious
upbringing, a respectful attitude towards
one's elders and active participation In
community life are indispensable condi¬
tions for any African wishing to be consid¬
ered a person of consequence. The lack of
more formal education can be forgiven, but
a person who does not fulfil these condi¬
tions inflicts the worst possible humiliation
on both his immediate family and his more I
distant kinsfolk. '
11

## [Page 12](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/074803engo.pdf#page=12) 0

### 45967: School is other people: for African children the village community is one big family of teachers

Respect for one's elders, which is an
'important part of character training, in¬
cludes respect for all who represent autho¬
rity: village chiefs, religious leaders, sooth¬
sayers, uncles, relatives and neighbours.
Styles of greeting play an essential role in
the expression of respect. Salutation is a
complicated affair in Africa, with different
modes for addressing relatives, elders,
equals, chiefs, and so on, and special
greetings for morning, afternoon and eve¬
ning.
There are different formulae for games,
dancing or drumming, for sitting or stand¬
ing, for tilling the soil or fishing, for weav¬
ing, swimming, walking or recovering from
an illness. Anniversaries, funerals or wed¬
dings, yam-growing ceremonies, the rituals
of ancestor-worship, the Egungun festivals
and other special occasions all call for
special types of greeting.
If "intelligence" means the capacity to
assimilate experience, and if "intellectuali-
zation" denotes abstract reasoning as
in the formation of concepts or
judgments then it may be said that tradi¬
tional African education encourages intel¬
lectual development. Observation, imita¬
tion and participation are three pillars of the
educational process.
African children and adolescents learn
the geography and history of their commu¬
nity. They know their local hills and valleys
like the backs of their hands; they know
where the land is fertile and where it is bar¬
ren. They know when to expect rain and
when to expect drought. They know the
right times to hunt and fish. In every family
the old people are teachers of local history.
The songs of praise which often comme¬
morate great events enrich the oral tradi¬
tion, creating an experience which it is diffi¬
cult to forget.
Botany and zoology are the subjects of
both theoretical and practical lessons, in
which special attention is paid to local
plants and animals. Where animals are
both a source of danger and a means of
livelihood, their behaviour is another
important subject of study.
Proverbs and riddles are exceptional wit-
sharpeners, and are used to teach the child
to reason and to take decisions. (See page
16, and also "Unesco Courier", May 1977).
Yoruba mathematics are particularly
interesting. According to CA. Taiwo, a
Nigerian educator, "The Yoruba have cre¬
ated their own system of arithmetic and
use a wide range of real-life situations to
develop skills of numeracy. At a very early
age, Yoruba children learn to count with
the aid of objects, rhymes and games, both
at home and in the fields.
"The use of cowrie shells for currency
offers good practice in counting. The
Yoruba have a different name for every
number, whatever its size. The name itself
may be long and complicated, but the mea¬
ning is precise, and no number is too large
or too small to be deciphered by a
Yoruba".
On the subject of cardinal and ordinal
numbers, Taiwo observes: "The Yoruba
understand the concepts, just as they
understand the mechanisms of certain frac¬
tions, of addition, subtraction and multipli¬
cation. Eleven Is one-plus-ten; fifteen is
twenty-minus-five; forty-three is three-and-
twice- twenty".
The Nupe of Nigeria have a similar
system, which is elaborate, lucid, practical
and unlimited in its application. According
to S.F. Nadel, author of A Black Byzan¬
tium: The Kingdom of Nupe in Nigeria, "A
number such as 3,600,000 is expressed as
'two-thousand-times-eighteen- hundred',
or in greater detail 'two-thousand-
times- two-hundred-times-nine'... Four
hundred is 'two-hundred-times-two', and
so on...".
The same author writes: "The area of
farms is measured by the number of heaps
of yams they can produce. Volumes are
expressed in 'liquid' or 'dry' measures, the
units being calabashes, gourds and in
more recent times tin cups and tin cans."
Most Nigerian tribes use similar systems of
measurement. Africans also have fun with
their mathematics in games of skill, such as
the "Ayo" game where players must out¬
wit their opponents in addition, subtrac¬
tion, multiplication and division.
Some educators have come to believe
that certain espects of traditional African
education should be integrated into the
modern system, and have begun to work
along these lines. This is a field which
should be given priority in all developing
countries.
One of the aims of education, whether
modern or traditional, is to perpetuate a
given culture. Traditional Africa sets great
store by this aspect of human develop¬
ment.
As they grow up, children of traditional
societies absorb and assimilate their peo¬
ples' cultural heritage, without formal tea¬
ching. They observe, imitate and mimic the
During the first few years of
life, an African child
develops a very close
relationship with its mother
and, like this Togolese infant
(left), is carried on her back
wherever she goes. One of
the earliest lessons an
African child learns is respect
for his elders. Among the
Dogons of Mali (above right),
the word of the patriarch of
the family is accepted
without question.
12

## [Page 13](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/074803engo.pdf#page=13) 0

### 45967: School is other people: for African children the village community is one big family of teachers

Photo © Pierre Pittet, WHO, Geneva
actions of their elders and their siblings.
They attend baptisms, religious ceremo¬
nies, weddings and funerals, the corona¬
tions of kings or chiefs, and the annual yam
festival. They watch the acrobatic displays
of guilds and associations, often joining in
with members of their own age-group or
with their families.
As we have already pointed out, respon¬
sibility for the upbringing of young Africans
is traditionally shared by the entire social
group. Good manners, conventions, cus¬
toms, moral rules and social laws are incul¬
cated by close relatives, by more distant
members of the extended family or by
neighbours. The hallmarks of a successful
traditional education in Africa are honesty,
perseverance and sincerity.
Today, however, African society and
its children face a dilemma.
From birth to the age of five, African
children are invariably brought up in the
traditional environment. But from the age
of six onwards, between one-third and
one-tenth of all these children (depending
on the country) enter another educational
system, which is almost totally different.
After spending their early years in a world
which has its own methods of transmitting
knowledge, they suddenly find themselves
in another world, whose concepts are by
no means the same. This phenomenon has
not received the attention It deserves from
educators and psychologists.
We tend to assume that African children
make this dramatic transition without diffi¬
culty, and we expect them to react just like
little English, American or German boys
and girls. But the fact is that their percep¬
tive balance is upset, and this abnormal
situation (for there is a world of difference
between the "non-formal" traditional
system and the "formal" Western system
of education) tends to retard the process of
learning as it normally occurs in the Wes¬
tern context.
More than half of all the children who
enter primary schools in Africa fail to com¬
plete the course. A number of studies on
"primary school failures" in Nigeria and
elsewhere attribute this wastage, which
ranges between 40 per cent and 60 per cent
according to country, to three factors: the
premature introduction of English as the
language of instruction in primary schools;
inadequate teacher training; and the short¬
comings of the educational means and
methods employed (due primarily to their
"alien" nature).
Of all the children in the world, only
those of African countries (and certain for¬
mer colonial countries in Asia and Latin
America) are obliged to learn in a language
other than their mother tongue. In some
developing countries children are educated
in their mother tongue during the first two
or three years of primary schooling, but
after this they must adopt either English or
French.
There is every reason to suppose that the
early introduction of a second, "foreign"
language obstructs the process of learning
and Is at least partly responsible, in the
developing countries, for the high drop-out
rates from primary and university education
alike.
If one of the essential objectives of edu¬
cation is to transmit a culture and by this w
we mean the culture specific to the child f
13

## [Page 14](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/074803engo.pdf#page=14) 0

### 45967: School is other people: for African children the village community is one big family of teachers

and to his or her particular social group,
then it must be said that most educators
and psychologists in the developing coun¬
tries have not made enough efforts to esta¬
blish a link between the school and society.
In most African countries today, there is a
lack of continuity between the family and
the school. A four-year-old Kenyan boy
described his experience In these terms.
"I was not yet four years old when my sis¬
ter was born... Although I was still very
young, I had to become my sister's nurse
for days on end. So that I should do the
job properly, my mother had to teach me
what to do, give me instructions and see
how I carried them out.
"First I had to do things while she
watched: feeding the baby, for example.
That took us up to planting-time the
following year; and then, because my
mother had more work to do, I had to do
more things with the baby.
"The day began with morning jobs for all
the family for everyone, that is, except
the baby... My father took out the
animals the cows, goats and sheep...
Mother went to fetch water from the river,
and cleaned the house... My job was to
collect fire from the neighbours, and lay or
light our own fire...
"Finally, before she went off to the
shamba, mother gave me my instructions:
'Don't leave the house unattended,' she
said, 'in case of thieves. Don't let Alusa
(the baby) cry for too long, it will make her
ill. Feed her when she cries. Keep stray
cats away from the hens, and watch out for
hawks over the chickens. Be polite with
visitors and with strangers who ask the
way'...
"Last of all, she promised to bring me a
present a fruit or a sweet potato when
she returned. And then she went off to
work, and it was late in the evening when
she came home..."
The experience of this little boy in East
Africa should bring home to educators,
psychologists and educational planners the
urgent need to provide continuity between
the child's domestic and scholastic expe¬
rience, so that schools and homes in Africa
are truly linked.
In most African countries, the first task is
to provide free primary education that is
valid for all the children. There is no need
for these countries to cling to the methods
employed up to now, which are very
costly; there is ample room for innovation
in the context of development.
Another urgent task is to harmonize the
traditional and modern systems of educa¬
tion, each of which can make an important
contribution to the upbringing of African
children. Research and experimentation
are called for here, and although each
developing country will have to define its
own objectives, and to direct its efforts
accordingly, three subjects appear to
deserve close attention: the impact of tradi¬
tional education on "formal" schooling;
the ways in which African children learn;
and the relationship between bilingualism
and education.
Children between the age of one and five
must be given real opportunities of learn¬
ing outside the "formal" system which
should take over at the age of five or six.
This calls for government planning at the
informal level, in order to make the transi¬
tion to the formal system less traumatic.
In a typical traditional African society,
education is not divided Into watertight
compartments. Children and young
adults, during the development of their
vocational aptitudes, pass imperceptibly
from one stage to the next. Some learn
quickly; others need more time. The
system which we envisage for the deve¬
loping countries in the coming decade will
permit children and adults alike to learn at
their own rhythm, whatever their age, sex,
level of education or specialized subject of
study.
A. Babs Fafunwa
Pupils of nature
The outdoor world is a natural classroom
where many African children express their
creative imagination through such
pursuits as dancing, music, hunting and
exploring. The spontaneous movements of
the dance are an ideal form of exercise for
growing bodies, as well as providing good
entertainment for friends who prefer to sit
it out (right). All youngsters are natural
scientists by inclination, and like this little
Cameroonian boy (left) love to examine
insect life at close quarters.
14

## [Page 15](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/074803engo.pdf#page=15) 0

### 45967: School is other people: for African children the village community is one big family of teachers

: v. - >
M>%
.v
i?
»
* OSJ^
/
/
X v
m.
'--» » .
-*

## [Page 16](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/074803engo.pdf#page=16) 0

### 45968: What's in a game? How the children of Zaire play to learn

What's
in a game?
How the children
of Zaire play to learn
by Kimenga Masoka
In Zaire, compulsory education
starts when children enter
primary school at the age of six.
Organized facilities for pre-school
education, which begins at the
age of three, are still limited
despite efforts made in recent
years to increase the number of
nursery schools. (According to
Unesco statistics, Zaire had only
211 pre-school institutions in
1972). But the shortage of schools
does not mean that there is any
lack of pre-school education in
Zaire. On the contrary, learning
through play forms part of the
traditional pattern of life.
CHILDREN are children all over the
world... And all over the world
children play games... In different
ways perhaps... But then, a game is just a
game anywhere!
Or is It? A closer look seems to show that
there is something special about the games
Zairian children play. Children in other
parts of the world, who go to
kindergartens, nursery schools and the like,
learn as they play. Zairian youngsters play
in order to learn, showing in their games
their sense of creativity.
At the age of three, and newly-weaned
(like many African children, they are
breast-fed until relatively late), they are
ready to assert their independence. They
are free to join the other children of their
own age or older. They have plenty of time
on their hands, and thousands of
wonderful ideas about how to occupy it.
So what do they do?
First of all, they make toys.
A group of children is usually led by the
oldest and most authoritative member of
the group: all the other children must obey
him as long as the game lasts; according to
African custom the young must always
show respect and obedience to their elders,
who represent traditional values.
To begin with, the group splits up, and
each child goes off on his own. It Is
Interesting to note the different ways in
which they behave. As they scatter into the
countryside they will pick a cob of maize or
some mango leaves, hack off the branches
of a palm-tree or try to knock some oranges
KIMENGA MASOKA, a staff member of the
National University of Zaire, is currently pre¬
paring a doctoral thesis in applied psychology
for the University of Paris. He is the author of
several studies on African psychology which
have appeared in Zairian publications.
off an orange-tree. Then one by one they
return to their usual playground (under the
trees of a courtyard) carrying their booty.
Each child settles down on his own little
patch of ground and tries to make
something out of his spoils.
First there is a long period of intense
concentration during which scarcely a
word is spoken. Then gradually, the chil¬
dren start to move around here a knife is
borrowed, there a bamboo cane is swap¬
ped for a strip of liana. Soon the work
begins in earnest.
Generally the children try to make fami¬
liar objects that appeal to them but are hard
to come bya model train, an aeroplane, a
car, a house, a telephone, a doll, a sauce¬
pan, a pipe, or certain types of games simi¬
lar to draughts. Yet these objects are never
exact copies of the real thing; the children
always do their best to add a personal
touch so that once they have finished they
can say: "I made that".
I remember watching a five-and-a-half-
year-old child from a modest family make a
telephone from a piece of liana about 10
metres long and two boxes made of mango
leaves. He put it together by attach¬
ing the ends of the liana to the two boxes.
Once he had firmly tied the knots, he laid
his apparatus out on the ground lengthwise
and asked one of his school friends to pick
up the box at the other end of the liana and
hold it to his ear.
When he spoke into his own box, the
other boy exclaimed: "It's amazing! I can
hear everything you're saying along the
liana!" When I asked the first boy if what
he had made was a telephone, he denied
that it was any such thing. It was his own
personal invention, he retorted, and he
would give it a name in his own good time.
Play is widely used in Africa as a means
of teaching children the basic traditional
16

## [Page 17](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/074803engo.pdf#page=17) 0

### 45968: What's in a game? How the children of Zaire play to learn

The effort of concentration and co-ordination is written on the faces
of these two miniature maestros as they beat out the rhythm of a
Bapende dance, at Kilembé, Zaire. Their instrument, a hollowed-out
tree trunk, is a drum used for transmitting long-distance messages.
elements of their culture. This is the
second important function of play.
According to one African belief, children
should not be told stories during the day¬
time, in case they stop growing. It is only in
the evening that adults interrupt their chil¬
dren's games and teach them proverbs or
tell them stories.
All kinds of instruction and knowledge
are passed on via proverbs and tales. "The
cola nut In grandfather's mouth" is not
merely a warning against the bitterness of
the cola nut, which adults like to chew. It
also carries another message: don't Imitate
grown-ups. Slavish imitation is as silly as it
is dangerous. "The palm nut falls from its
cluster only when it is ripe." In other
words, you should not go it alone in life
until you, too, are ripe (See Unesco Cou¬
rier, April 1977).
Zairian children, like children all over the
world, tend to copy adults. But only up to
a point; traditional wisdom makes a subtle
distinction between aimless aping of
adults' behaviour or attitudes and the kind
of imitation that ¡s a way of preparing one
self for life and broadening one's know¬
ledge. Here again, play has its contribution
to make, with the full co-operation of
adults.
Fishing and hunting naturally among
the most exciting kind of games involve
the same imitative, or rather educative pro¬
cess. The children only hunt grasshoppers,
rats and birds, but they have to make their
own bows and arrows out of bamboo,
strips of palm-wood and liana. They only
fish for small fry in flood water during the
rainy season, but they have to fashion their
own hooks and dig up their earthworm
bait.
Singing and dancing form an integral
part of all these activities. If pre-school
education of this kind doesn't bring out a
child's intelligence, sensibility, creativity
and physical gifts then nothing will. What's
more, Zairian children play not only to learn
about the world, but also to discover them¬
selves. Take "nzembo", for instance, one
of their favourite games.
"Nzembo" consists of making music
with water. Two or three children wade
out into a shallow part of a river. Another
child hums a tune and tells them to play it;
like a conductor, he allots various tasks to
each member of his orchestra so as to get
an accurate rendering of the tune. He gives
his musicians a starting note, and at a
signal from him they start to play.
How, you may ask, does one "play" a
river? The musicians plunge their clenched
fists into the water, smacking the surface
of the river as hard as they can, producing
very low rhythmical sounds as they hit the
water which are like the sounds of the tom¬
tom. Indeed, so catchy and rhythmical is
this music that the other children on the
river bank join In and dance.
...Once upon a time, In far away Zaire,
there lived a three-year-old musician whose
favourite instrument was a river. Standing
in the water he would coax music from the
water with his hands...
What a wonderful story to tell the chil¬
dren of Europe at bedtime, so as not to
stop them growing.
Kimenga Masoka
17

## [Page 18](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/074803engo.pdf#page=18) 0

### 45970: Should we re-think the preschool system?

Should we re-think
the pre-school
system? by Liliane Lurçat
ONE result of the generalization of
education during this century has
been an increase in scholastic
competition; access to many jobs depends
upon certificates and diplomas obtained at
school, and children who have had the
advantage of a few years of pre-schooling
find entry into primary school less difficult
than those with no pre-schooling behind
them.
Pre-schooling is seen, therefore, as an
important factor in scholastic success and
in view of the high incidence of scholastic
failure, particularly among working-class
children, it is easy to understand parental
anxieties and the desire, of some parents at
least, to get their children involved in the
educational process at an early age.
But pre-schooling has repercussions on
the educational system as well as on the
children: the primary school expects to
receive "pupils" and not children fresh
from the family circle; the child Is trans¬
formed by an earlier introduction to life in
society.
During the first months of life, children
are subject to the influence of their family.
The family environment passes on values
peculiar to each family as well as national,
regional and class characteristics. Religious
beliefs are also imparted by the family. Chil¬
dren absorb this family culture, adopting a
variety of habits, for example, of feeding,
expressing, amusing or occupying them¬
selves. They adopt certain attitudes when
faced with change; depending on the
nature of the family, they adjust with
varying degrees of ease or difficulty to
other environments. This does not mean
that the family standardizes reactions. Dif¬
ferences between individuals also play their
part, and each child of a family marks his
tastes and proclivities by adopting what
appeals to him in his environment.
The period between the ages of three
and six is a personality-forming phase typi¬
fied by great sensitivity to surroundings. It
is also the period of pre-schooling, the
LILIANE LURCAT, French specialist in child
psychology and educational psychology, is the
author of two books on pre-school education,
La Maternelle, Une Ecole Différente (published
by Editions du Cerf, Paris, 1976) and Une Ecole
Maternelle (Stock, Paris, 1976).
influence of which can have lasting effects
which may tally with family influences or
else run counter to them.
It has been pointed out that the essential
function of pre-schooling is to introduce
children to life in society. This "socializa¬
tion" has two aspects. On the one hand, it
clearly teaches them how to live collecti¬
vely, with children who are of about their
own age, and with adults who are not their
parents and who fulfil specific functions.
Children adjust to the group, and to the
rhythm and activities of school. They learn
to obey adults and to accept discipline.
The other less obvious aspect of this
socialization is that it has the effect of pro¬
ducing a certain uniformity in. children's
reactions. The most basic and widely
accepted moral notions are inculcated in
young children: they learn, for instance,
that they ought not take home or break
toys belonging to others, that they ought
not fight. And these prohibitions are not
just an abstract set of rules. It is the action
of the children themselves which is com¬
mended or criticized. The child gradually
learns how to distinguish between what is
thought to be positive and what is regarded
as negative in what he or other children do.
Moreover, the children in the group par¬
ticipate and react collectively along the
same lines as the adult, with the result that
approval or disapproval becomes a univer¬
sal reaction. When, for instance, a three-
year-old girl refuses to put away the felt
pens and the schoolmistress calls her "a
naughty girl", many of the children of the
same age in her class will repeat: "Yes,
she's naughty, she's not nice". They
adopt the adult's opinion. This standardi¬
zation of reactions has been called "ideolo¬
gical pattern-forming".
The socialization of children at school is
something that takes place throughout the
day and in the course of their various activi¬
ties. Thus it is not so much a particular
field of teaching as a lifestyle to which the
child gradually becomes accustomed.
Pre-school teaching does not usually fol¬
low a specific curriculum. As a general rule
children are not given marks. But they are
appraised according to their school work.
In France, for instance, school records are i
kept on each child, starting at pre-primary f'
A cardboard house is a
fine vantage point from
which to examine the
world around. The pre¬
school years are the
period In which the child
is introduced to society
and acquires manual
skills: a time to savour
the hilarity of the law of
gravity and to marvel at
the enchantment of the
tinkling of bells and the
clashing of cymbals.
18 .*

## [Page 19](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/074803engo.pdf#page=19) 0

### 45970: Should we re-think the preschool system?

H
^MHHH
19

## [Page 20](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/074803engo.pdf#page=20) 0

### 45970: Should we re-think the preschool system?

school; and they contain assessments of
conduct, character and scholastic success.
Pre-school teaching covers various cate¬
gories of activity. Activities involving self-
expression and creativity are aimed at
bringing out the child's personality. Other
forms of learning and preparation for lear¬
ning, the teaching of manual skills, develop
control of the body. It is accepted that one
of the vital needs of young children is the
opportunity to create and to express them¬
selves. This is encouraged by the extensive
use of play situations: classrooms are divi¬
ded up into different areas by partitioning.
There is a kitchen area, where family meals
are simulated; a bathroom area where dolls
are washed and dressed; and a grocery
area, where children can play at buying and
selling.
Other opportunities for self-expression
and creation are provided by drawing,
modelling, singing, dancing and making
things. Objects made by children are often
exhibited at end-of-term open days. Celeb¬
rations in general play an important role in
pre-school teaching; the children's birth¬
days are celebrated, as are festivals such as
Christmas, Shrove Tuesday, and Easter.
In some schools, creative and construc¬
tive activities provide an opportunity for
bringing together children of different
ages. But the children are usually grouped
according to age. In France, for example,
when nursery schools have nine classes,
the children are divided up into three
sections a lower section consisting of
children aged between three and four, a
middle section with four- and five-year-
Veryown village
"A house must have walls or we
would all be outside" (Christophe). "A
roof in case it rains" (David). "A floor
or we might trip over the holes in the
ground and moles might come in"
(Stephane). "A door so we can go In
and out" (Sandrine). "And windows
to look out of" (Mylène). "And so it
won't be all dark Inside" (Fabien).
The children of the Gambetta nursery
school, at Sèvres, near Paris, were
discussing the houses they were
going to build on a piece of land set
apart for them by the municipality.
The children built Veryown Village
and, in 1978, they published a booklet
describing how they set about It and
from which these drawings are taken.
olds, and an upper section with five- and
six-year-olds. There are often three classes
per section, again divided up according to
age. The three classes in each section may
reflect a more detailed breakdown into age
groupings of four months.
This grouping by age is justified by the
speed with which children develop at this
stage. It makes It possible to organize acti¬
vities more closely geared to the children's
ability level at any given time, particularly
with regard to the teaching of manual
skills, and preparation for learning. Take
for instance graphic activity aimed at pre¬
paring children to write: there exist pro¬
gressive exercises for the middle and upper
sections, while in the lower section chil¬
dren are usually encouraged to play with
felt pens, paint brushes and chalks. They
learn in this way to use instruments
without being given systematic instruction.
Moreover, manual skills can be developed
through a whole series of games involving
the nesting of boxes, fitting objects into
each other, collages, cut-outs, and the
stringing of beads, among many others.
Pupils in the upper section are often
given their first introduction to reading and
writing, while certain mathematical games
begin in the middle section. There is also
instruction in spatial location (such notions
as right, left, above, and below). This is
thought to facilitate the learning of reading
and mathematics.
Pre-school education is by no means in
its infancy in France the first nursery
schools were established in 1881 yet dis¬
cussion of its aims and content was for
long restricted to educational circles.
Nowadays an increasing number of people
are taking an interest in the function of
schooling and above all in the crisis now
affecting it in many industrialized coun¬
tries. Pre-school systems have not aroused
the same degree of curiosity, and educatio¬
nal sociologists have devoted much less
work to pre-schooling. But various factors
are now encouraging its analysis.
In the first place, there is the problem of
school failure, which is more widespread
among children from a working-class back¬
ground, and can be observed from the
moment primary education begins. The
theories that have been put forward to
explain school failure are of two types:
some find fault with the educational system
itself, which fails to provide the right condi¬
tions to enable everyone to acquire the
basic reading, writing and arithmetical
skills. Others blame the circumstances of
children from the poorest backgrounds,
invoking what they call the "socio-cultural
handicap" which results from being
brought up in an unstimulating family envi¬
ronment and which prevents children from
acquiring knowledge of a scholastic nature.
This implies that the reasons for failure
have nothing at all to do with the school.
Similar explanations ascribe the failure of
working-class children to a lack of Intelli¬
gence, supposedly proved by their poor
performance in intelligence tests.
Such thinking on the causes of school
failure has led to the devising of so-called
compensatory teaching systems (because
"If it's too narrow, we won't be able to move'
"If the door is shut we won't even be able to
eat and we shall have to make a hole in the
door where our mouths will come so we can
be fed through it".
"If there were three or four of
us inside we would be much too
squashed; just think what it
would be like with five!".
Drawings (£) Ecole Maternelle Gambetta. Sevres, France
20

## [Page 21](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/074803engo.pdf#page=21) 0

### 45970: Should we re-think the preschool system?

they compensate for the "handicaps"
caused by the family environment). Experi¬
ments of this kind have been put into prac¬
tice on a considerable scale in the United
States (see page 23). Pre-primary school is
considered an ideal stage at which to com¬
pensate for such handicaps. French nur- .
sery schools have even been called
"schools for the equalization of opportuni¬
ties". Such compensation should be parti¬
cularly directed at language, since it is
thought that working-class children suffer
from a "linguistic handicap" which pre¬
vents them from understanding abstrac¬
tions.
But these theories are by no means uni¬
versally accepted. Many researchers ques¬
tion the whole notion of a socio-cultural
handicap. It is not only wrong but highly
dangerous, they claim, to blame families
for any failure their children may expe¬
rience at school, for it absolves the school
of any responsibility in the matter. But if
school is compulsory for all. It is Its duty to
pass on basic knowledge to all its pupils.
When, as sometimes happens, almost a
third of the children experience difficulties
during their primary education, some
attempt should be made to establish why
this is so and to discover what Is wrong
with the school. Research in the field has
shown that the transmission of knowledge
is not always egalitarian, and that in some
cases it would be accurate" to talk of selec¬
tive transmission in favour of middle-class
children. It has also been shown that
school can encourage self-disparaging atti¬
tudes among working-class children, in
other words that it can cause them to lose
their self-confidence as pupils.
To talk of a socio-cultural handicap with
reference to the poorest families is to
analyze in pathological terms a phenome¬
non which is essentially related to social
and more particularly educational condi¬
tions. To adopt such an approach is tanta¬
mount to denying the cultural identity of
the working class. Now one of the great
problems facing schools for all is how to
respect the cultural identity of those who
attend them. For if all are to enjoy the right
to acquire knowledge, particular individual
or social characteristics should be allowed
for rather than repudiated. Teachers must
also be trained; children are all too often
entrusted to people who have received no
proper pedagogical instruction.
It was long held that pre-primary school
was a neutral, sheltered environment, and
that the real problems began when children
started primary school. But on-the-spot
research has revealed the existence even in
the pre-primary school of selective trans¬
mission and the development of proneness
to failure among children from the poorest
homes.
Pre-schooling, as has already been men¬
tioned, is a vital period in the forming of a
child's personality. It Is only natural, then,
that self-disparaging attitudes can leave a
lasting mark on children who feel inferior to
their fellow pupils. Such attitudes are not
caused solely by the relationship with
adults; they also stem from teaching
methods and content. If reading and arith¬
metic are taught too early, there is a danger
that many children may be put off such
subjects. In France, there is a running con¬
troversy between advocates of their being
taught early, and those who feel it is better
to wait until primary school.
Various difficulties have been lumped
together under the heading "handicaps",
from motor and sensory difficulties, such
as difficulties of walking, seeing or hearing
which are quite clearly of a physiological
nature, to psychological difficulties whose
nature and origin are hard to analyze and
whose very existence is sometimes far from
easy to prove the child may simply be
reacting to school. In this case it is not a
question of a disorder specific to the indivi¬
dual but of a particular manifestation of a
lack of flexibility of the school.
Some French educationalists have
stressed the need to detect all such "handi¬
caps" before the age of four. Here again,
caution is called for; while there is every
advantage in detecting shortsightedness in
young children it is much riskier to start
examining them for signs of psychological
abnormality. There is, moreover, a change
in teachers' attitudes when one of their
tasks is to detect such disorders. The long-
term purpose of schooling could well
change, and considerable harm could
result for any child wrongly labelled as
handicapped in some way.
One really difficult problem in pre-
schooling is connected with the differences
that exist between individuals. Depending
"The roof must be higher, otherwise our heads
will be sticking up into the room above."
on the location of the school, there can be
a varying degree of social homogeneity In
the catchment area. But the teaching
problem is the same everywhere; all chil¬
dren have to be prepared for primary
school. In order to ensure that some chil¬
dren do not feel rejected, teachers have to
understand them and try to understand
themselves.
Labels, such as "unstable" or "trouble¬
some", should be avoided at the pre¬
school level because they tend to stick. On
the contrary, great attention should be paid
to all signs of evolution or change, which
teachers are in a position to detect as they
are in contact with their pupils for several
years. Teaching methods should be based
on an understanding knowledge of the chil¬
dren and guided by the very positive aim of
personality-forming.
Differences between children should be
recognized and tolerated. It must be reali¬
zed that they do exist, otherwise teachers
will reject some children without being
aware of their deeper reasons for doing so.
One of the first things a teacher has to
face are differences in his pupils' social
backgrounds. Then come differences in
their rate of development; some children
walk, speak and are toilet-trained before
others, though this has no bearing on their
subsequent development.
Another type of difference is in the way
they react to school. Some children are at
ease, and make full use of their ability to
adjust. They are liked by their teacher,
who is encouraged and reassured because
he thinks he can detect the immediate
effects of his teaching. Other pupils are
fearful, anxious, on the defensive, reserved
and shy. There are quiet children who do
not try to draw attention to themselves by
recounting the latest exploits of their fami¬
lies. In this world in miniature the teacher
distinguishes between the most quick¬
witted and the slowest, between those
who are well turned out and those whose
appearance is neglected, and between
those capable of keeping up with changes
of activity, and those who remain aloof,
participating only in short spells. But the
teacher must also understand each one of
them.
In the relationship that is gradually built
up with the children, a vital role is played by
the teacher's emotional reactions, such as
sympathy, antipathy, selective irritability,
favouritism, displays of affection, out¬
bursts of anger, and so on. This emotional
relationship is complemented by character
judgments, and an image of each child
gradually takes shape, blurred and change¬
able In some cases, clear-cut and lasting in
others. Teachers tend to prefer and feel
affection for children from their own social
and cultural backgrounds.
Recognizing the children's cultural iden¬
tity means recognizing that each one of
them is a repository of culture and there¬
fore also means respecting that which is
different and specific to them. This is why
there is an urgent need to defend the pre-
primary school, to re-think it and to re¬
organize it in relation to the children who
attend it in a word, to respect those who
have not yet learned distrust.
Liliane Lurçat
21

## [Page 22](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/074803engo.pdf#page=22) 0

### 45973: Love is not enough

is not
Photo <£J Georges Tourdjman, Pans
22

## [Page 23](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/074803engo.pdf#page=23) 0

### 45973: Love is not enough

by Burton L. White
IN 1965, the United States government
initiated a dramatic attack on educa¬
tional under-achievement by children
from low-income families. Each year since
then hundreds of millions of dollars have
been spent on research and service pro¬
grammes to help children prepare for entry
into the school system. From these unpre¬
cedented efforts has come an exciting new
conception of education which has focus-
sed attention on the importance of the edu¬
cation developments that take place during
the first three years of life, long before a
child enters primary school.
Recognition of the need for new approa¬
ches of this kind took some time to
emerge. Free education had been available
throughout the United States of America
since the beginning of the century, but not
until much later did it become clear that
this was not enough.
Experience showed that the achievement
levels of children entering the educational
system at around the age of six generally
gave a good indication of their likely school
achievement levels in subsequent years.
Children who appeared particularly well
developed at six were much more likely to
perform well throughout their school
careers than average or below average six-
year-olds. Furthermore, the gap between
these two groups tended to widen with the
relatively poorly developed six-year-olds
falling further and further behind.
For several decades, various types of
remedial education were introduced in an
attempt to help the less favoured children
make up the lost ground, but, in general,
BURTON L. WHITE of the USA is director of
the Harvard Pre-school Project, a long-term
research programme which he started 14 years
ago to study ways of helping children make the
best of their potential. He is the author of three
textbooks on early childhood development and
of a book for parents, The First Three Years of
Life, published by Prentice-Hall Inc., New Jer¬
sey, USA, in 1975.
schools found it very difficult to make any
significant improvement in the situation of
those children who at six seemed unprep¬
ared for school.
The prevailing view, rooted in age-old
ideas about human nature, was that this
state of affairs was inevitable. If a child did
not do well during his school years, it was
because he or she did not have the poten¬
tial for average or above-average academic
achievement. The child who did well was
destined to succeed because of hereditary
factors.
As research on human development
became more substantial from the 1940s
onwards, many investigators came to
question this entrenched idea.
It seemed that there was considerable
reason to believe that learning opportuni¬
ties during the first six years of life played a
significant role in determining how much
ability children had acquired by the time
they entered the school system. If this were
so, there was hope that children need not
enter the system "predestined", as it were,
to be poor performers.
More and more people came to believe
that it was possible to provide better prepa¬
ration for formal education. Spokesmen for
low-income families became increasingly
restive, and strong pressure was brought
to bear on the U.S. government to provide
special education programmes for pre¬
school children. The result was the massive
attack on the problem of school readiness
launched by the government in 1965.
The first major effort, known popularly
as Project Head Start, was designed to
help three- to-five-year-old children from
low-income families prepare for the formal
education system. With $600 million in
funds for the first year alone, and steadily
supported since then, Project Head Start
has encompassed a wide variety of pro¬
grammes across the country.
It soon became clear, however, that the
problem of readiness for formal education
was not an easy one to solve.
One of the first findings was that not all
children from low-income families were
inadequately prepared for formal educa¬
tion. On the contrary, some of them
showed outstanding academic abilities
when they entered school.
Nevertheless, It was found that a higher
percentage of the more slowly developing
children came from low-income than from
upper-income families. The vast majority of
the new pre-school programmes did not
seem to bring a dramatic improvement in
their rate of development. Their ability
levels after two years of special education
were not noticeably different from those of
similar children who had not been enrolled
in such programmes.
However, a handful of especially effec¬
tive programmes did produce improve¬
ments. Children who otherwise would not
have been ready for the first year of primary
school were helped, particularly as far as
their language and intellectual skills were
concerned. By the time they entered
school, they had reached levels of achieve¬
ment that were at least as good as the
national average.
This was an incredible achievement and
one that received wide acclaim. Unfortuna¬
tely, in from one to three years, all these
improvements were usually lost. By the
third year of primary school, the children
who had been helped by the few out¬
standing pre-school programmes no longer
showed any significant advantages over
comparable children who had not attended
experimental programmes.
This finding has been depressing for all
those interested in improving the educatio¬
nal achievements of young children. How¬
ever, many of those who have studied the
development of young children over a
period of several years have never been
convinced that special education beginning
at the age of three was the wisest way to
help children prepare for school.
A number of indications, including the
results of achievement tests at the age of
three, pointed to the fact that the problems
children reveal when they start school very
often develop considerably before their
third birthday.
Such evidence made it clear that pro¬
grammes like Head Start, which start after
the child is three years old, are not preven¬
tative but remedial. But since pre-school
educational programmes such as Head
Start are based on the belief that it is better
to prevent than to remedy, it became
obvious that the first three years of life
should be more closely examined.
As a result, attention has shifted from
the three-to-five-year age range to the first
three years of life, including infants and
toddlers.
Increased attention is also being paid to
different kinds of teacher. The teachers in
the Head Start programmes are professio¬
nals, and usually unrelated to the children.
The teachers of children under three are
usually the children's own parents, and
most often their mothers.
Research during the past decade on how k
children acquire abilities during the first f
23

## [Page 24](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/074803engo.pdf#page=24) 0

### 45973: Love is not enough

three years of life has brought to light some
fascinating facts. First of all, there is a
strong suggestion that during the first six
or seven months of life babies are assured
of acquiring certain skills, and that this
holds good even though they may be
brought up in a wide variety of ways.
Basically, what children have to acquire
at this stage is the sense that they are
deeply loved and a small number of simple
skills such as learning how to see and hear
clearly and how to reach for nearby
objects. They must also preserve their
innate interest in exploring the world.
These skills seem to develop well in the
vast majority of cases even when the
parents have received no special training or
assistance.
The picture changes dramatically, how¬
ever, from the age of six or seven months
until the third birthday. During this period
there is nothing inevitable about children's
development. There is no certainty that
their language skills will develop as well as
they might, that their curiosity will be deep¬
ened and broadened to the fullest, that
their social development will be adequate,
or that the sub-structure of intelligence will
be solidly established. Given suitable learn¬
ing opportunities they will acquire new
skills and be able to handle increasingly
complex tasks; but the progress made will
depend to a surprising degree on the atti¬
tudes and child-rearing practices adopted
by the parents.
One major source of difficulty is that as
children enter the second half of their first
year they enter a relatively dangerous time
to be alive.
When babies begin to crawl, they are
accident-prone. They use their mouths to
explore the world and tend to swallow
things that can harm them. Their move¬
ments are not well co-ordinated. Homes
are not designed for such crawling chil¬
dren, and as a result infants tend to fall, cut
and bruise themselves. Consequently,
parents are inclined to restrict the explora¬
tory activities of young children. However,
this is not the most desirable way of
helping the infant and toddler make the
most of his developing talents.
Broadly speaking, it has become clear
that the child's first teachers his
parents are usually not well prepared for
the very important task of getting their
child off to a good educational start. Edu¬
cational policies in the United States make
no provision for preparing and assisting
parents to raise very young children.
Because of long-standing traditions, de¬
signed in part to protect the privacy of the
home, it has been assumed that as long as
parents love their children they will some¬
how do a good job of raising them.
However, recent research increasingly
indicates that if parents were given prepa¬
ration and assistance, both immediately
before the birth of their children and during
the pre-school years, children would get
more out of their early learning experien¬
ces, parents would experience much less
needless strain in raising young children,
and everyone would get considerably more
enjoyment out of the process.
Burton L. White


### 45974: India's mobile crèches; an imaginative experiment in child-care

India's
mobile crèches
An imaginative experiment in child-care
by Meera Mahadevan
MEERA MAHADEVAN, founder and director
of the "Mobile Crèche" child care programme in
India, died in July 1977. This article, an edited
version of a study published in Unesco's educa¬
tional quarterly Prospects (Vol. VII, N° 4, 19771,
appears with the kind permission of Unicef's
journal Assignment Children.
INDIA is developing fast in every field.
The country is mobilizing all its re¬
sources to accelerate its transfor¬
mation from the bullock cart era to the
space age; yet millions of our children still
live in conditions of poverty.
The Mobile Crèche programme special¬
izes in caring for children from the poorest
sections of Indian society construction
labourers who travel from site to site, many
thousands of whom are women and
mothers, coal-scavengers, rag-pickers and
others like them are the parents of our
young charges.
The origins of the Mobile Crèche pro¬
gramme go back to 1969, when we opened
a crèche in a tent for children under three
left to fend for themselves while their
mothers worked on a construction site in
Delhi. In the next eight months, three
more centres for children under three were
opened. At that time we had neither trans¬
port facilities nor an office and the work of
setting up a skeleton programme, gath¬
ering meagre supplies and scouting around
for urgently needed help and finance was
all carried out from the homes of volunteers
or from central meeting points.
By the end of 1970, the number of
crèches had grown to five and funds had
been found for a small base office. In the
next six months, five more centres were
opened. The programme was gathering
momentum and by mid-1971 we were pro-
24

## [Page 25](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/074803engo.pdf#page=25) 0

### 45974: India's mobile crèches; an imaginative experiment in child-care

A mobile crèche set up on a New Delhi building site provides basic health and education
services for the young children of unskilled construction workers. Forever on the move
from one building site to another, and therefore the responsibility of no one local
authority, these young urban nomads were left to look after themselves as best they
could until the mobile crèche organization took a hand.
Photo © Abigail Heyman, Unicef
viding care for 1,000 children, dealing with
ten building contractors and negotiating
with a large number of officials who could
sanction funds, water supplies or sanita¬
tion for the work-sites.
Construction workers are not the only
ones compelled to leave their young ones
to look after themselves. Every poor wor¬
king mother has to leave the household and
the babies in the charge of the older chil¬
dren. It is not uncommon, for example, to
find a girl of six, herself in need of care,
bringing up her baby brothers and sisters.
The first lesson we learned was that a
child cannot be isolated either from its
family or from the community. We started
the programme with a crèche because that
was the first priority as we saw it. But the
moment we took in the babies, the older
children who had been looking after them
had nothing to do and they came along to
our centres as well. Their nomadic way of
life and the fact that they had been obliged
to look after their siblings meant that most
of them had never been to school.
So today we are Involved not only in
crèche and nursery services but also in
elementary education. Our centres have
three sections: a crèche, nursery classes,
and elementary classes for children be¬
tween the ages of six and twelve.
Furthermore, as we gained experience,
we felt a great need for contact with
parents and this led us to launch an adult
education programme. We realized that it
was impossible to cater only for this or that
age group, and took the whole community
as our target.
Our equipment is simple and familiar to
the mothers. For example we use impro¬
vised cradles of a type that is found
throughout rural India and costs next to
nothing. Other basic equipment for a
crèche includes mats, a table for chang¬
ing babies' clothes, and a cupboard for
medicines, plates and other utensils. A
stock of toys for a section of some 50 chil¬
dren costs no more than 10 rupees.
The accommodation allotted to us is
usually drab. It may be In a basement or on
the 18th floor of an unfinished skyscraper.
To mellow the harsh surroundings, the
staff decorate the crèche with the
children's colourful drawings. The babies'
cots and cradles have lovely mobiles
hanging on them.
The babies, who come to us from the
age of 3 or 4 weeks are generally malnour¬
ished. They receive a preliminary medical
examination and are prescribed a diet by
the visiting doctor. Most of them are given
vitamin drops, milk, and other high-protein
food according to need. Although the doc¬
tor visits a centre only once a week, the
supervisors and nutritionists keep a close
watch on the children's progress. Many
babies are given half an egg as a special
diet. Once they show signs of progress,
their mothers come forward to share the
cost of an egg.
We try to make our crèches a home from
home. Every effort is made to develop the
child physically as well as emotionally,
intellectually and socially. The crèches
resound with the traditional songs familiar
to children.
In our nursery sections there Is nothing
unfamiliar or alien to either the children or
their teachers and the educational methods
we use are carefully adapted to Indian
experience.
Nursery schools are often considered a
luxury in poor countries, mainly because
they are thought to need elaborate and
expensive facilities.
We have shown the fallacy of this belief
by making imaginative use of cheap, locally
available materials to provide equipment
for children aged between three and six. In
the nursery section the materials used are
cardboard, chart paper, glazed paper, kite
paper, wooden beads, scissors, black¬
board, stones, leaves, flowers, potters'
clay (to replace plasticine), rag dolls, old
saris, wooden blocks and other inexpensive
items.
Our most important achievement is to
have produced model nursery equipment
suitable for a country like India that has to
think of children in millions. With few
variations, the same equipment can be «
used throughout the country. |
25

## [Page 26](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/074803engo.pdf#page=26) 0

### 45974: India's mobile crèches; an imaginative experiment in child-care

Having found an answer to the problem
of children under six, we realized that It
was impossible not to cater for deprived
children aged between six and twelve.
In Delhi, primary education is free and
poor children are entitled to get free books
and uniform. Unfortunately, many of the
poorest members of our society, who are
completely illiterate, are not even aware of
these opportunities. In spite of the best
intentions, the government does not
always succeed in reaching the poorest
people in the country. This is where the
role of an agency like Mobile Crèches be¬
comes vital. When we take care of the
babies and the nursery-age children, we
prepare the older children in our elementary
sections to join the local elementary
school.
We had to educate our own staff. .We
need teachers who will attend to a child's
sores and bathe him before settling down
to teach. We also need teachers who will
convince the parents that they should send
their children to the school. Thus a worker
in a Mobile Crèche must be a social worker,
a teacher and a mother.
The training has to be very basic and
simple. A standard routine of bathing,
feeding and giving medicine to babies had
to be worked out and suitable equipment
provided. The role of the dustbin had to be
dramatized. Working in unhygienic sur¬
roundings without sanitation, we have an
enormous task to maintain standards of
cleanliness in our centres. We have to
improvise little places which babies can use
as toilets and then find methods of dis¬
posing of the waste in a hygienic way.
Higher secondary school girls form the
bulk of our staff, but over the past three or
four years we have also started recruiting
boys. They bring a different atmosphere
with them and children love to have a male
teacher around.
From the beginning, the Mobile Crèche
programme had wholehearted support
from the children on construction sites and
in the slums. Seeing their children so
happy with our staff, parents also accepted
us, although they were a little suspicious at
the beginning.
Each child is charged a nominal fee.
They all have to buy slates, notebooks,
pencils, erasers and other materials at sub¬
sidized rates.
When the idea of charging fees was
introduced, many mothers refused to pay
for nursery children on the grounds that
this age group did nothing but play and
sing. It was quite understandable, and we
decided to organize a mothers' meeting to
explain all our nursery school activities.
This meeting was a great success and we
now always hold this type of meeting when
a new centre is opened.
Mothers' meetings are a very common
feature of our activities today. In 1969 and
1970, when we were new in the field, we
tried to bring the mothers together but they
were always busy with their household
chores. Then we tried cooking demonstra
tions and these attracted a group of
mothers who began to meet regularly. We
provided them with education in nutrition
and taught other topics related to child
care, hygiene, weaning foods, and the diet
of pregnant and nursing mothers.
Today our main point of contact with the
parents is our Adult Education Programme,
which has helped us considerably in im¬
proving our services to children. Before
carrying out immunization or vaccination
programmes we hold parents' meetings at
which we explain, with the aid of films,
flash cards, etc., what we want to do and
why. In this way we retain the parents'
goodwill and they do not get the impres¬
sion that the programme is being high¬
handedly imposed on them.
In its Fifth Plan, the Government of India
has given priority to crèche programmes
and the Mobile Crèche programme now
receives a substantial grant from the Wel¬
fare Department. This has enabled us to
work at certain sites even when the buil¬
ding contractors have refused to contribute
financially. Our aim is to educate the com¬
munity by our work. We want the contrac¬
tors and the authorities concerned to be
convinced that there is no ulterior motive
and that our sole concern is the welfare of
the children.
Meera Mahadevan
Crèche and nursery school programmes
have been given high priority by the
Indian Government over recent years. At
this nursery school in Madras carefully
selected toys help stimulate the
imagination and develop manual dexterity.
26

## [Page 27](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/074803engo.pdf#page=27) 0


### 45975: Family and State: a shared responsibility

Steering with a smile.
Shepherdess Irina Lapasova,
who lives in the Gorno-Altai
Autonomous Region of the
USSR, is determined that her
10 children will take the right
road in life. (The three
youngest were at the crèche
when photo was taken).
I /~*\ K-V"^ I I \ / /""^ K"^ ^r ^^. T'^ "t"^"^ I N the Soviet Union today 15 million
I ^*"H I I I I I \/ f~i I If J ^i I ^H I I ' I children are enrolled in a vast network
I \-A I I Illy V^ I I V-^ V_r* LV^I LV»/ of state nursery schools. On average,
/ about 50 per cent of children under seven
attend pre-school institutions, but In Mos¬
cow, Leningrad, Ashkhabad, Magnito¬
gorsk and a number of other industrial cen¬
tres, the figure is substantially higher
(about 80 per cent). In these centres, all
children whose parents wish them to
attend nursery schools are admitted
without restriction.
There are 213 training colleges for nur¬
sery school teachers; and highly qualified
staff (such as heads of nursery schools, v
specialists in teaching methods, and f



-a shared
responsibility
by Aleksandr V. Zaporozhets ALEKSANDR V. ZAPOROZHETS, Sower
psychologist, is a member of the USSR Aca¬
demy of Pedagogical Sciences and director of
the Academy's Institute of Pre-school Educa¬
tion. He is the author of more than a hundred
scientific studies on child psychology and pre¬
school teaching.
27

## [Page 28](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/074803engo.pdf#page=28) 0

### 45975: Family and State: a shared responsibility

Photo © APN, Moscow
"It's very hard to make up later for what hasn't been
done in the first three years", wrote the Soviet
educationalist Anton S. Makarenko (1888-1939). A
fundamental tenet of Makarenko's theories on
education is that children's will-power is developed
not through indulging their every whim but through
teaching them self-control and balanced and positive
behaviour. Above, a budding ballerina at practice.
training college lecturers) are trained in 34
specialized faculties in pedagogical institu¬
tes. There are some 800,000 pre-school
teachers in the USSR today.
The family plays a highly important role
in the education of children in the USSR.
Soviet pre-school educational methods are
based on the principle of the unity of state
and family education.
Throughout the country, educational
ideas are publicized on a large scale by
"parents' universities", lectures, courses
and counselling, and also by the press,
radio and television. Many editions of
popular books on family education are
published.
The Soviet system of pre-school educa¬
tion is based on the idea that the develop¬
ment of the child does not occur sponta¬
neously, as a result of the emergence of
Innate aptitudes, but that the determining
factors are the social environment and edu¬
cation.
Education is particularly important in the
first years of life, when there is an intensive
development of various intellectual, artistic
and practical abilities, when the moral
qualities of the personality are formed, and
the character begins to take shape.
As the Soviet educationalist A.S. Maka¬
renko pointed out, the way in which chil¬
dren are educated during the pre-school
period has a decisive influence on their suc¬
cess or failure at school and to some extent
determines their subsequent achievements
in various fields of productive, scientific
and artistic activity, their position in society
and their happiness in personal life.
Although certain characteristics of a
new-born child's organic structure (and
especially of his nervous system) are inheri¬
ted, these are merely the starting-point for
his later psychological development and do
not predetermine either his character or his
future level of development. All normal
children have enormous psychological and
physiological potential; the problem lies in
creating the most favourable conditions for
realizing it.
Having recognized the importance of
inherited characteristics, we must, at the
same time, emphasize that they are merely
the conditions and not the determinants of
the child's psychological development.
None of the distinctive characteristics of
the human mind, such as logical thought,
creative imagination and volition as a regu¬
lator of action, can emerge simply as the
result of the maturing of organic charac¬
teristics. They can only develop in the right
social and educational conditions.
Psychologists have accumulated vast
amounts of data which support this thesis.
Studies on very young children hospitali¬
zed in isolation from adults, show that
psychological development is impossible if
the child is cut off from social life and edu¬
cation in the broadest sense.
However, merely to Indicate the decisive
Importance of social and educational fac¬
tors is not enough; it is essential to acquire
a clearer idea of the role of these factors in
psychological development.
Many West European and American
psychologists consider that the develop¬
ment of children and young animals fol¬
lows a similar process of adaptation.
except that children adapt to the conditions
of social life while animals adapt to biologi¬
cal conditions.
Such a concept is false because it takes
no account of the specific way in which the
human organism develops. It is true that
children, like young animals, go through a
process of adaptation and adjustment to
environmental conditions, but their
psychological development follows differ¬
ent lines and is not analogous to that of
animals.
It has been demonstrated that through¬
out childhood, the individual absorbs the
social experience accumulated by the pre¬
vious generation, acquires specific know¬
ledge and skills, and grasps certain aesthe¬
tic and moral standards. If no such social


### 45978: It's never too early to learn

It's
never
too
early
to learn
by Boris Nikitin
BORIS NIKITIN is a Soviet engineer who has
also written widely on questions relating to the
education of young children. He and his wife
Yelena are co-authors of a study based on their
experiences in bringing up their own family. This
article brings up to date his account of life with
the Nikitin family, published in the February 1971
issue of the Unesco Courier.
28

## [Page 29](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/074803engo.pdf#page=29) 2

### 45975: Family and State: a shared responsibility


experience is acquired, the child's psycho¬
logical development cannot take place.
It should be stressed that the acquisition
of social experience implies not only the
accumulation of individual concepts and
skills, but also the development of certain
personality traits. This is not a passive pro¬
cess and should not be regarded as a one¬
way influence exercised on the child's
consciousness by adults while thé child
remains inactive.
. The child's activity is of decisive impor¬
tance; without such activity nothing can be
achieved. Its nature changes as the child
develops. Certain forms of activity become
dominant at certain stages of development,
later becoming subsidiary and being re¬
placed by other, more complex forms of
behaviour.
Children of pre-school age mainly learn
through play and through such creative
pursuits as drawing, modelling and build¬
ing. Later on, school activities and socially
useful work become more important.
Research has shed light on the process
whereby new forms of mental activity
. develop while the child is actively acquiring
social experience. Initially such activities
take an outward, physical form of expres¬
sion and later, through the command of
language, are "generalized" and, as Piaget
puts it, "interiorized" as part of a process
of conceptualization, imagination and
thought.
The work of such Soviet specialists as
Leontyev, Galperin and Elkonin shows that
while this process always occurs, it takes
place more slowly and less effectively when
the child is left to its own devices. It hap¬
pens much earlier, and is more complete, if
the education provided is specially struct¬
ured and purposive.
These are some of the psychological
data which form the basis of Soviet pre¬
school educational theory. They provide
scientific justification for opposing the con¬
cepts of spontaneous development and
undirected education and for insisting on
the importance of the teacher's role, on the
need for the systematic teaching of pre¬
school children according to a definite
syllabus, and on the need for measures
specifically designed to form certain
aspects of the child's personality.
Aleksandr V. Zaporozhets
1


### 45978: It's never too early to learn

The seven children of librarian Yelena Niki¬
tin and her engineer husband Boris are all
two or three years ahead of other children
of their own age. Alyosha, the eldest, is
already, at the age of 17, working as a
senior technician in a research institute.
Anton, the second, has just graduated at
thirteen and a half from a secondary
school specializing in mathematics. The
other children are still at school, and are all
two or three years younger than their class¬
mates. How is it that they have developed
so early? Boris Nikitin explains:
WHEN our first child, Alyosha, was born
17 years ago, our primary concern-
like that of parents everywhere was
that he should grow up into a capable, good-
hearted and healthy adult. But how could we
make sure that he would turn out like this?
We read the biographies of talented indivi¬
duals of the past poets and writers like Pushkin
and Lermontov, musicians like Mozart, inven¬
tors like Edison and were struck by the early
age at which their creativity became apparent...
We began to collect facts, and to study the
history of education. One of the first things we
discovered was that in the 18th century, children
learned to read and write at the age of 14 or 15;
since then these skills have been taught at an
1 Soviet engineer Boris Nikitin
and his family are firm believers in
the precept that a sound mind
should go together with a sound
body. Physical exercise and
outdoor recreation are the order
of the day for the Nikitin children,
come rain, wind... or even snow...
2 ...with dad gamely joining In.
3 A family get-together on a
sunny day. Informal discussion is
an essential part of the upbringing
that has helped all the Nikitin
children to develop earlier than
their contemporaries.
4 The two eldest Nikitins put
their theoretical knowledge to the
test In the family workshop.
Photos 1 and 2 © APN, Moscow
Photos 3 and 4 N Samoylov
© "Soviet Woman", Moscow
29

## [Page 30](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/074803engo.pdf#page=30) 0

### 45978: It's never too early to learn

increasingly early age. Two centuries later, we
1 ourselves started school at the age of eight,
whereas our children would do so at seven. We
discovered that in 58 countries schooling began
at the age of six, and at five in a number of
others, and that educational specialists in some
parts of the world were asking whether it should
not begin at the age of four. How, we asked
ourselves, could this trend be explained? What Is
the best age to start school?
While we were busy puzzling over this ques¬
tion, Alyosha was growing. One day, when he
was one and a half years old, someone gave him
a set of cubes with letters of the alphabet printed
on them. "The letters won't mean anything to
him yet," we said to ourselves, but we let him
play with the cubes all the same.
Three months or so later, we were more than
a little surprised to discover that Alyosha could
already recognize a dozen letters. By the time
he was two and a half, he knew all 29 letters of
the Russian alphabet. Two months later,
without any prompting, he read out his first
word. This was an eye-opener for us. If our
child could read at such an early age, how soon
could he acquire other skills?
At first, we relied entirely on intuition in deter¬
mining Alyosha's capacities and limitations. We
were very careful, when we played with him, not
to apply pressure or impose lessons. If he did
something successfully, we were pleased; if he
failed, we simply waited until he tried again.
At one-and-a-half or two-year intervals, other
little brothers or sisters arrived and we ourselves
gained experience and became bolder in our
approach. The family's stock of educational
toys and equipment for physical exercise stea¬
dily increased, and we even invented materials
and games ourselves.
In addition to the lettered cubes, we had a
board on the wall with letters made of bent wire
or cut out of linoleum, a blackboard, chalks,
pencils and paper, reading books and copy¬
books. When one of the little ones found a ring
one day he ran up to us, shouting delightedly,
"Look, Mummy, an '0'!".
We played trains with the letters, joining them
up to form "M - A - M - A", "P - A - P - A", "M -
0 L - K - 0" (milk) and other simple words. Our
second son, Anton, began to read at three years
and three months; the girls all began between
the ages of three and four.
Our general approach was based on the fact
that, to teach a child to speak, adults talk to it as
soon as it is born; in other words the child is
placed in conditions of oral communication long
before it begins to speak itself. Why not provide
the same conditions for the development of
other faculties? And this, as far as we were able,
was what we did: we tried to place our children
in an environment that would stimulate the
development of the greatest possible variety of
activities.
We didn't hesitate to introduce into the chil¬
dren's immediate surroundings a large number
of things from the world of grown-ups. As well
as the usual toys, dolls and children's books, we
provided a wide range of educational objects
and materials, such as maps and globes, mathe¬
matical tables and textbooks, and a whole series
of educational games invented by the family.
Games begin with very simple tasks, like
copying patterns, pictures or shapes, and lead to
more creative activities involving the invention
of new patterns, models and constructions.
These activities are quite informal. They are not
"lessons" in the sense that the adult teaches
and the child assimilates, but playful contests in
which the grown-ups are participants as well as
referees, and which often involve problems like
"how can we share 25 walnuts between nine
people?", or "how can we divide three apples
into 10 equal parts?".
We encourage the children to work the ans¬
wers out for themselves, and never hurry them,
however long they take. We believe that it is
better to wait patiently and to study their own
processes of reasoning; we don't even intervene
when they're on the wrong track; we leave them
to find that out for themselves too. What we are
looking for is originality, and the ability to argue
a case and defend a point of view.
We allow our children plenty of freedom in
choosing their occupations and working out
their own time-table, since we believe that this
gives them the opportunity to discover and
express their different interests.
We know that children are often more interes¬
ted in playing a game if adults, and especially
their parents, also join in enthusiastically.
Grown-ups should not remain on the side-lines,
as impartial observers or dutiful instructors, but
should participate wholeheartedly. And this is
what we do; we are just as excited as they are
when someone is successful, and just as disap- .
pointed when someone makes a mess of things.
Our children each have very different charac¬
ters and interests but they share the same curio¬
sity, attentiveness and ability to memorize. They
easily recall what they have read, think origi¬
nally, seek their own solutions and enjoy tasks
that sharpen their wits. Academician Nikolai
Amosov considers that they are not so much
"eggheads" as "problem-solvers". They like to
invent and act out situations, writing and perfor¬
ming playlets in which they are "in the Revolu¬
tion", "in prehistoric times", "at the zoo" or "at
the theatre"...
If the development of the child starts earlier,
at a more favourable period of his life, he will not
be overburdened with work later on at school
and consequently will not drop behind. All our
children get good marks at school, but the most
important thing is the excellent way in which
each one has developed his creative capacities.
Our main conclusion, after 15 years of practi¬
cal and theoretical enquiry in our own family, is
that all children can develop in this way and
can do even better if the necessary conditions
are provided at the right time.
Boris Nikitin


### 45981: Jean-Jacques Rousseau, the children's champion

JEAN-JACQUES
ROUSSEAU
The children's
champion
notion that man is born good, is perhaps of minor importance. His major
achievement lay in attacking long-accepted practices, drawing up new
guidelines and implanting the idea that the true purpose of education is to
teach children the business of living, that living is not just a matter of brea¬
thing, but of acting, sloughing off a deadweight of useless restrictions, and
of learning how to exercise freedom. And so, says Rousseau, "Let us allow
childhood to ripen in the child"; let us be on our guard against entrenched
ideas enshrined in tradition, training and society, let us put these ideas
under the microscope of rigorous and unrelenting criticism. For if might is
the enemy of right, habit is the enemy of freedom. Let us encourage the
growth of liberty from the moment of birth; education begins when the
child first draws breath.
THIS year marks the 200th anniversary of the death of the philosopher
Jean-Jacques Rousseau, who was born in Geneva in 1712.
Rousseau was not only the author of the first eloquent and persua¬
sive piece of writing to glorify childhood but also a thinker whose ideas
about education, with their insistence on respect for the liberty and dignity
of the child, are now widely accepted in the modern world. He is also
remembered for his celebrated warning, still so often echoed today, that
"We know nothing about childhood" and that "with the false Ideas we
entertain about childhood, the further we go, the further we go astray." It
is customary to attribute the generalization of breast-feeding to his advo¬
cacy of it in Emile, although it must be admitted that the climate of opinion
had already changed and many mothers were nursing their children
(instead of farming them out to wet-nurses) before Rousseau's famous
treatise on education appeared in 1762. On other issues too, Rousseau's
eloquent arguments, including his plea that babies should be liberated
from "the tyranny of swaddling clothes", caused the welfare of infants to
be viewed in a fresh light and gave rise to an entirely new approach to older
children.
There was, then, what we might call a "Rousseau effect"; but whether
or not it was based, like his other great work, 77je Social Contact, on the
For the aim of education is to prepare for life, and not to turn out
pedants and the kind of "profound thinkers" who understand everything
except the world they live in. This is implied in Rousseau's insistence that
children should have the right to find things out for themselves, to acquire
experience at first hand. The exercise of this right fosters the development
of freedom and curbs the will to dominate. Children also learn from expe¬
rience how to tailor their desires to their capabilities.
However, if the originality of Rousseau's ideas can still be appreciated
200 years after his death, we know today that a hunger for truth is not
necessarily the prerogative of the child or "the noble savage". The theory
that civilization is nothing but a source of failure, ruin and decay is no
longer tenable. The concepts of "experience" and "mastery", as we
understand them today, are much more complex and subtle than they
appeared to Rousseau. He was doubtless aware of the difficulty of the
problems he was dealing with, and when he wondered whether it could
ever be possible to "direct fully the speech and actions of all those who
come into contact with a child" he showed that he had some idea of the
importance of the social and cultural environment. But an awareness that
those who deal with a child play a major role in his development is not
enough, even if it is combined with a realization that children are the focus
of plans and expectations even before they are born. The all-important
question remains to be solved: how do these expectations actually affect
the child and in what sense, if any, do they "predetermine" his develop¬
ment?
Mohammed A. Sinaceur
Division of Philosophy, Unesco
30

## [Page 31](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/074803engo.pdf#page=31) 0

### 45983: Who teaches the teachers?

Who teaches
the teachers?
Photo © Bibliothèque Nationale, Pans
Looking after a group of young children demands an inexhaustible supply of energy and a
wide variety of skills, for the pre-school teacher is called upon to be by turns mother,
psychologist and nurse, as well as an educator. Above, a precursor of the modern play-pen
as visualized by the 19th-century French artist François-Louis Lanfant de Metz.
by Dorothy Fleming STAFFING policies for pre-schools vary
considerably around the world. In
many countries, staff working with
younger children are less well trained than
those working with older children. Policy¬
makers rationalize by saying that there is |
less need for trained teachers In pre- 1
DOROTHY FLEMING, British specialist in pre¬
school education, is senior lecturer in education
at Sheffield City Polytechnic (U.K.) and was
head teacher of a nursery school from 1960 to
1963.
31

## [Page 32](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/074803engo.pdf#page=32) 0

### 45983: Who teaches the teachers?

schools than in compulsory schools. In this
connexion one must remember that in
some countries pre-school education was
and still is voluntary whereas primary
school is compulsory.
The trend now is both towards making
the pre-school experience available to more
children and towards providing better
trained and educated pre-school teachers.
Sufficient funds are not always made
available, however, to pursue both goals
at once.
In China, candidates for kindergarten
teaching complete upper primary school at
age 12, and then attend a junior normal
school for three to four years to qualify for
the work. On-the-job training is very much
encouraged.
In Japan, on the other hand, a very high
level of academic achievement is required
of entrants to teacher-training for young
children. The U.K. comes about half-way
between the two: a candidate must have
attended secondary school till age 18
before entering teacher-training courses for
young children.
A distinction is made in the U.K. as in
some other countries, between Nursery
Nurses, who work only in pre-schooling
and day-care (usually under supervision)
and Nursery and Infant Teachers, who are
qualified (after 3 or 4 years of higher educa¬
tion) to work in pre-school or primary
schools, with children up to seven or eight,
often supervising less qualified helpers.
The ways in which pre-school education
is organized around the world are also
extremely varied. One finds state- or
private-run classes, full- or part-time caring
arrangements; nursery groups may be set
up by parents or by employers. There are,
nevertheless, some interesting similarities.
Though in some countries there is dis¬
agreement about the priority that should be
given to state-run pre-schooling, there is
now fairly wide agreement that specially
trained people should be providing it. For
example, the pre-school playgroups in the
U.K. which were initiated and financed by
parents would on the whole prefer to be
using trained teachers.
At first sight, the social and educational
aims of pre-schooling may seem to differ
widely in various societies, for example, in
the USSR and in the U.S.A. However, on
closer examination, one finds that their
basic aims are much closer than might have
been thought.
In every kind of society, teachers of
young children have a variety of roles to
play and must resolve the conflicts arising
from these different roles. They have to be
instructors, managers, helpers, discipli¬
narians, welfare workers and decision¬
makers. They have to have insight and
understanding of a wide range of personal,
familial, social, economic and political pro¬
cesses as well as of their own place within
them, and so they need a remarkably wide
range of knowledge and skills.
If these teachers miss opportunities, fail
to make correct assessments and deduc¬
tions or take wrong action, the consequen¬
ces can harm or disadvantage a child in his
later years. On the other hand, if a child's
early experience of teachers and of school
is a positive one, this can lead to a life-long
love of learning and to the development of
an individual who is stable, independent
and well-functioning within his own
society.
It is more vital than ever to give the
highest possible level of training to those
professionals who will be working with
young children. They should have a mini¬
mum of three or four years initial training
with periodic refresher courses. Not only
are they being given much of the responsi¬
bility for passing on the culture and values
of societies to their youngest members but
they are also responsible for developing the
potential of individuals to the highest level.
It may well be the case that the training a
society provides for its pre-school educa¬
tors is a sign of its maturity and the confi¬
dence it feels in its own future.
Dorothy Fleming
According to Unesco's
Statistical Yearbook
(1976) there were
1,681,000 pre-school
teachers throughout the
world in 1974, although
these figures do not
include the People's
Republic of China, the
Democratic People's
Republic of Korea and
the Socialist Republic of
Vietnam. Over a million
and a half were in the
industrially developed
countries, as opposed to
only 163,000 in the
developing world
(including 4,000 in
Africa, 8,000 in Oceania,
10,000 in the Arab
countries and 86,000 in
Latin America).
32

## [Page 33](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/074803engo.pdf#page=33) 0

### IGNORE

Letters
to
the editor
JULES VERNE:
FORESIGHT OR HINDSIGHT?
Sir,
I was very disappointed by Alain Bom¬
bard's article "Jules Verne, Seer of the
Space Age" (March 1978).
The caption on page 30 proclaims that
"Jules Verne's universal appeal is due not
only to his outstanding gifts as a story-teller
but also to his prophetic qualities". How¬
ever, anyone who takes the trouble to look
into the scientific literature of the period will
find that Jules Verne invented nothing.
Alain Bombard writes that "the only occa¬
sion when Jules Verne's extremely logical
mind led him astray" was in A Journey to
the Centre of the Earth, and that in his other
novels he foresaw with astonishing accuracy
a host of modern inventions, among them
being the submarine. But the submarine is
not a 20th-century invention.
The first submersible dates back some two
and a half centuries before the publication of
20,000 Leagues under the Sea, to 1624. In
that year the Dutch inventor Cornelis Van
Drebbel, a protégé of King James I of
England, built a "diving boat" according to
principles drawn up by the English philo¬
sopher and mathematician William Bourne in
1578. Van Drebbel's wooden vessel, propel¬
led by oars and made watertight by a leather
cover, travelled along the Thames from
Westminster to Greenwich. Its most illus¬
trious passenger was King James himself.
The world's first pocket submarine, David
Bushnell's Turtle, was built in 1777 during
the American War of Independence.
Jules Verne did not even invent the name
Nautilus, which was that of the submarine
designed buy the American Robert Fulton in
1798 and built in 1800. (20,000 Leagues
under the Sea was written in the late 1860s.)
This is only one instance of Jules Verne's
so-called visionary gifts.
The fact is that Verne's ignorance was
monumental and all-embracing, one particu¬
larly striking example being his description of
the divers of the Nautilus swimming in water
at a temperature of between 6 and 7 degrees
below zero. They must have had a hard time
trying to move around in a solid block of ice!
Jules Verne was a great novelist whose
works have given me considerable pleasure,
but it is a mistake to present him as a great
visionary of the 19th century. All he did was
to lift from his wide reading material which
he barely understood.
Henri Broch
Doctor in physics
Researcher at the Faculty of Science,
Nice, France
CARING ABOUT SEALS
Sir,
In his letter published in your January 1978
issue, Mr. A.M. Dalil of Teheran, whilst
admiring the humanitarian motives of a
group of French students who wrote protes¬
ting against the slaughter of baby seals,
wonders how they can worry about seals
when so many people die of hunger each
day or are killed more unmercifully than seals
just because they want their freedom.
How does your correspondent know that
these French students are not also concer¬
ned about the people he mentions? Young
people should be encouraged to think about
both human beings and animals; there can
be no question of priority when life, which is
indivisible, is at stake.
Does Mr. Dalil think that activities as diffe¬
rent as, for example, teaching illiterates to
read and write, or organizing football mat¬
ches should be postponed until everyone on
earth is free and well fed?
S. Montezinos
World Federation for the Protection
of Animals,
Rijswijk, The Netherlands
Sir,
I fully understand the reaction of Mr Dalil
(Unesco Courier, January 1978) who finds it
astonishing that people should be so concer-
ned about the fate of animals when so many
humans are being massacred or are dying of
hunger throughout the world.
But what is he himself doing to alleviate
human misery? Has he not yet learned that
no one can ever stop men killing each other?
The fact is they like killing each other! There
have always been wars and unfortunately
there always will be. Yet this is no reason to
allow animals to be massacred. Men can
defend themselves, animals cannot.
Mr Dalil should ponder these words of
Mahatma Gandhi: "When men understand
that they should not cause animals to suffer,
they will suffer less themselves".
In conclusion, may I take this opportunity
to congratulate you on your extremely inte¬
resting magazine.
Madame P.L.
Courbevoie, France
SAVE THE WHALE
Sir,
I am writing this letter because I think
something should be done to save the
whales. People have been killing them for
over a century. But now they are becoming
extinct and I think we should do something
about it. I think we should set up whale
sanctuaries all over the world. We should do
something and do it now, or by the time I
have children there won't be any whales left.
Patrick Marley
Eloy Junior High School,
Eloy, Arizona, U.S.A.
777/s is one of forty letters pleading for action
to save the whale from extinction written by
seventh grade pupils of Eloy Junior High
School, Arizona, U.S.A. Editor.
THROUGH THE WINDOW
Sir,
As a subscriber to the Unesco Courier I
would like to thank you for this "window
open on the world" of international friend¬
ship and understanding, a world without
frontiers. Reading your magazine renews
one's faith in humanity and gives one the
urge to climb through the window, to
renounce the role of mere spectator and to
assume that of a responsible, adult partici¬
pant working with you to achieve the goal of
peace.
Madame H. Berthault
Aumale, France
SEVENTEEN PLUS
Sir,
I greatly enjoy the Unesco Courier, and
your issue on Arab culture was fascinating.
As a teacher I should like to congratulate you
on your article "Calligraphy and Architec¬
ture". I am glad to take the opportunity to
say how much I appreciate the quality and
the variety of the articles you publish.
I was happy to read that the publication of
the Catalan edition brings the total number
of language editions of the Unesco Courier
to seventeen.
Gelencsér Gábor
Zalaegerszeg, Hungary
Since Mr Gabor wrote this letter a Malaysian
edition of the Unesco Courier has been laun¬
ched, bringing the total number of language
editions up to eighteen Editor.
DANGER, WEEDS!
Sir,
I am writing to point out an important
detail to those responsible for the restoration
of the Acropolis. If, as has been suggested
(Unesco Courier, October 1977), soil is
spread over the "holy rock", it will certainly
contain seeds and spores of weeds. Under
the effect of rain and wind these seeds and
spores are liable to lodge and grow in the
crevices of the stones of the monument thus
causing further damage.
Catherine Stephan
Versailles, France
THE BIRTH OF JAZZ
Sir,
First of all I should like to congratulate you
on the new Catalan edition of the Unesco
Courier.
At the same time, may I make a few com¬
ments on Alejo Carpentier's article "The
Blacks in Latin America" (August-
September 1977)? I take issue with his state¬
ment that "Alexander's Ragtime Band" was
the work of Irving Berlin. In my view, Berlin
simply made a musical transcription of a
tune which was already being played by
"musically illiterate" black musicians in New
Orleans. This unscrupulous habit of plagiari¬
zing black musicians' work was fairly wide¬
spread among white musicians but this is
too vast a subject to go into here.
Jazz is not creóle music (in the sense in
which Carpentier uses the word créole) but
black music. With certain honourable excep¬
tions, behind every well-known piece of jazz
by a white composer there is always a black
whose work has been imitated, plagiarized
and unrecognized.
Carpentier quotes an author who declares
that the history of jazz began in 1619, when
the first black slaves arrived in Virginia. One
might just as well say that its starting point
can be traced back to the emergence of the
first cultures in Africa. However, the truth of
the matter is that jazz was born when the
New Orleans blacks became free and formed
bands, using instruments which were more
sophisticated than those of Africa.
Ramón Ferrer Valero
Sabadell, Spain
33

## [Page 34](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/074803engo.pdf#page=34) 0

### IGNORE

Bookshelf
RECENT UNESCO BOOKS
AND PERIODICALS
D Solving Educational Problems: the
theory and reality of innovation in deve¬
loping countries, by R.G. Havelock and
A.M. Huberman. A study prepared for
the International Bureau of Education.
Co-published with OISE, Toronto, and
Praeger Publishers, New York, who have
exclusive sales rights in Canada and the
USA respectively. 1978, 308 pp. (45 F)
D Systems and Policy: The function
of Information in Improving Educa¬
tion Systems. National case studies of
Argentina, Denmark, German Dem.
Rep., Iraq and New Zealand. Prepared
for the International Bureau of Educa¬
tion. 1977, 82 pp. (12 F)
D Lifelong Education and University
Resources. Case studies of experi¬
ments in Canada, France, Ghana,
Poland, Sweden, Switzerland, Vene¬
zuela and Zambia. 1978, 193 pp. (42 F)
D Terminology: Special Education,
by Lise Brunet, M.R. Marin Ibánez, V.l.
Lubovskij and N. Sondergard. A four-
language glossary (English, Spanish,
French, Russian) to facilitate communi¬
cation between specialists in different
countries. 1977, 368 pp. (42 F)
D Terminology: Unesco: IBE Educa¬
tion Thesaurus. A faceted list of terms
for indexing and retrieving documents
and data in the field of education with
French and Spanish equivalents. 1977,
348 pp. (42 F)
D The Politics of Territoriality is the
theme of Unesco's quarterly Internatio¬
nal Social Science Journal (Vol. XXX,
No. 1, 1978). Each issue 23 F; subscrip¬
tions 70 F for one year or 116 F for two
years.
OTHER BOOKS
D African Traditional Architecture,
by Susan Denyer. Heinemann Educatio¬
nal Books Ltd., London. 1978, 210 pp.
(Hardbound £8.50; softbound £3.80)
D Things to Make with Everyday
Objects, by Kevin Goldstein-Jackson.
Souvenir Press, London. 1978, 149 pp.
(£3.95) Sixty simple experiments for
children.
D Papua New Guinea: Its Economic
Situation and Prospects for Develop¬
ment. A World Bank Country Economic
Report. 1978, 223 pp. ($6.50)
D World Armaments and Disarma¬
ment: SIPRI Yearbook 1978. Published
by Taylor and Francis Ltd., London, on
behalf of Stockholm International Peace
Research Institute, and distributed by
Almqvist and Wiksell International,
Stockholm (for Scandinavia), Crane,
Rusak and Co. Inc., New York (for
USA), and Taylor and Francis (for rest of
the world). 1978, 518 pp. (£18.00)
Toys and games
from round the world
An international exhibition of traditional games
and local toys will be held at Unesco HQ in Paris
during the forthcoming session of the Organiza¬
tion's General Conference in November 1978.
The exhibition will bring together games and
toys from every continent, made from locally
available materials by children and craftsmen
using non-industrial methods.
A museum
for Gay-Lussac
Louis-Joseph Gay-Lussac, the famous French
physicist and chemist noted for his discovery of
the gas cyanogen and of laws governing the
combination of gases which served as the basis
of the atomic theory, was born on 6 December
1778 at Saint-Laurent-de-Noblat in central
France. To mark this bicentenary, Saint-
Laurent-de-Noblat has created a museum, to be
opened this summer, devoted to Gay-Lussac's
life and work. Among the exhibits in the
museum, which is housed in an 18th century
convent, are manuscripts and laboratory instru¬
ments belonging to the great scientist.
Down with
high blood pressure
In a message for World Health Day (7 April), Dr.
Halfdan Mahler, Director-General of the World
Health Organization, drew attention to the
problem of hypertension, or high blood pres¬
sure, "whose complications are among the most
important causes of death and incapacity in
many parts of the world". A recent survey of
European and North American adults had shown
that between 10 and 15 % were hypertensive,
Dr. Mahler pointed out, but "only half of these
cases were known to the health profession and
of those only 30 % at most were under treat¬
ment... Prevalence of hypertension in devel¬
oping countries seems to be about as high and
the number of cases treated far less."
Women and
rural development
A world conference on agrarian reform and rural
development will be held in Rome in July 1979
under the auspices of the United Nations Food
and Agriculture Organization (FAO). It is
strongly hoped that representatives of speciali¬
zed women's organizations will take part.
"Rural populations have not benefitted from
the general progress made in recent years,"
declared Mr. Edouard Saouma, Director-General
of FAO. "We hope that the conference will help
these populations to emerge from their
poverty."
The integration of women into rural develop¬
ment should be one of the major problems dis¬
cussed at the conference, which will deal with
social and economic factors rather than tech¬
nical problems.
Guide to
World Food Programme
The World Food Programme (WFP) has pub¬
lished a brochure on "what it is, what it does,
and how it works". Set up in 1962 by the UN
and the Food and Agriculture Organization, the
WFP provides food aid to developing countries
and aims to stimulate economic and social deve
lopment. The brochure can be obtained from
WFP, Via délie Terme di Caracalla, 00100,
Rome, Italy.
World
Telecommunication Day
"Radiocommunications" is the theme of the
10th World Telecommunication Day (17 May).
The possibilities of radio captured the imagina¬
tion of the world as long ago as 1909, when two
ships collided off Nantucket, Mass., USA.
Thanks to a distress appeal by a radio operator,
1,500 persons were saved. Today some 80,000
vessels are equipped with radio. World Tele¬
communication Day coincides with the anniver¬
sary of the foundation of the International Tele¬
communication Union (ITU), created (as the
International Telegraph Union) in Paris on 17
May 1865. The ITU, whose headquarters are in
Geneva, is the oldest intergovernmental organi¬
zation of the United Nations system, and has
154 Member States.
New home for
Papua New Guinea Museum
The National Museum and Art Gallery of Papua
New Guinea, housed in temporary accommoda¬
tion at Port Moresby since 1960, has moved into
a new specially constructed complex including
pavilions and buildings in traditional village style.
Unesco's quarterly review Museum (No. 4,
1977) contains a study on the museum and its
collections, which illustrate a highly original and
often misunderstood cultural heritage.
Subscription: 60 French Francs 11 year); 120 F
(2 years)
Unesco
medal
to honour
Aristotle
Unesco has issued a commemorative medal to
mark the 2,300th anniversary of the death of the
Greek philosopher Aristotle (384-322 B.C.).
Engraved by Leognany (Paris) the medal shows
on one side a profile of Aristotle after a sculpture
in the Kunsthistorisches Museum, Vienna, on
the other an owl, symbolizing the sciences, and
a map of Greece. The Aristotle medal Is one of a
Unesco series commemorating the anniversaries
of great men such as Michelangelo (1975) and
Rubens (1977). Each medal Is available in gold,
silver and bronze and may also be purchased
with a chain ring for wear as jewellery. For fur¬
ther information, please write to Unesco's Phila¬
telic and Numismatic Programme, 7, Place de
Fontenoy, 75700 Paris.
o
l
tn
O
o
a
ID
a
CE
<
a
o
34

## [Page 35](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/074803engo.pdf#page=35) 0

### IGNORE

international Bureau
of Education
Experiment* and innovations 36
in education
Just published
A dossier of imaginative and innovative actions in favour of
underprivileged children of the developing world.
BASIC SERVICES FOR CHILDREN :
A CONTINUING SEARCH
FOR LEARNING PRIORITIES
Discusses the special learning needs of underprivileged
children of the developing world.
Examines various experimental methods of providing
learning opportunities for the deprived young.
Presents studies from fourteen countries on a variety of
alternative learning programmes and activities.
Basic services for
children : a continuing search
for learning priorities
Unesco-Unioef Cooperative Programme
1978 240 pages
Where to renew your subscription
and place your order for other Unesco publications
Order from any bookseller or write direct to the
National Distributor in your country. (See list
below; names of distributors in countries not
listed, along with subscription rates in local
currency, will be supplied on request.)
AUSTRALIA. Publications: Educational Supplies Pty. Ltd. P.O.
Box 33 , Brookvale, 2100, NSW. Periodicals' Dominie Pty. Subs¬
criptions Dept., P.O. Box 33, Brookvale 2100, NSW. Sub-agent:
United Nations Association of Australia, Victorian Division,
Campbell House, 100 Flinders St., Melbourne (Victoria!, 3000.
AUSTRIA. Dr. Franz Hain, Verlags-und Kommissionsbuch-
handlung, Industriehof Stadlau, Dr. Otto Neurath-Gasse 5, 1220
Wien. BANGLADESH. Bangladesh Books International
Ltd , Ittefaq Building, 1, R.K. Mission Rd., Hatkhola, Dacca 3.
BELGIUM. "Unesco Courier" Dutch edition only: N.V. Han-
delmaatschappij Keesing. Keesinglaan 2-18, 2100 Deurne-
Antwerpen. French edition and general Unesco publications
agent: Jean de Lannoy, 202, avenue du Roi, 1060 Brussels, CCP
000-0070823-13. - BURMA. Trade Corporation No. 9, 550-552
Merchant Street, Rangoon. CANADA. Renouf Publishing
Co. Ltd., 2182 St. Catherine Street West, Montreal, Que. H3H
1M7. - CYPRUS. "MAM", Archbishop Makanos 3rd Avenue,
P.O. Box 1722, Nicosia. - CZECHOSLOVAKIA. - S.N.T.L.,
Spalena 51, Prague 1 (Permanent display): Zahranicni literatura,
11 Soukenicka, Prague 1. For Slovakia only: Alfa Verlag
Publishers, Hurbanovo nam. 6,893 31 Bratislava CSSR.
DENMARK. Munksgaards Boghandel, 6, Norregade, DK
1165, Copenhagen K. - EGYPT (ARAB REPUBLIC OF).
National Centre for Unesco Publications, No. 1 Talaat Harb
Street, Tahnr Square, Cairo. ETHIOPIA. National Agency for
Unesco, P.O. Box 2996, Addis Ababa. - FINLAND. Akateemi-
nen Kirjakauppa, Keskuskatu 1, SF-00100 Helsinki 10.
FRANCE. Librairie de l'Unesco, 7, place de Fontenoy, 75700
Paris, C.C.P. 12598-48. - GERMAN DEMOCRATIC REP.
Buchhaus Leipzig, Postfach 140, 710 Leipzig or from Internatio¬
nalen Buchhandlungen in the G.D.R. FED. REP. OF GER¬
MANY. For the Unesco Kurier (German ed. only): 53 Bonn 1,
Colmantstrasse 22. For scientific maps only: GEO CENTER D7
Stuttgart 80, Postfach 800830. Other publications: S. Karger
GmbH Karger Buchhandlung. Angerhofstrasse 9, Postfach 2,
8034 Germering/Munchen. GHANA. Presbyterian Bookshop
Depot Ltd., P.O. Box 195, Accra; Ghana Book Suppliers Ltd.,
P.O. Box 7869, Accra; The University Bookshop of Ghana,
Accra; The University Bookshop of Cape Coast; The University
Bookshop of Legón, P.O. Box 1, Legón. - GREAT BRITAIN.
See United Kingdom. HONG KONG. Federal Publications
(HK) Ltd., 5A Evergreen Industrial Mansion, 12 Yip Fat Street,
Aberdeen. Swindon Book Co., 13-15, Lock Road, Kowloon.
HUNGARY. Akadémiai Konyvesbolt, Váci u. 22, Budapest V;
A.K.V. Konyvtúrosok Boltja, Népkoztársaság utja 16, Budapest
VI. ICELAND. Snaeb|brn Jonsson & Co., H.F., Hafnarstraeti
9, Reykjavik. INDIA. Orient Longman Ltd., Kamani Marg,
Ballard Estate, Bombay 400038; 17 Chittaranjan Avenue,
Calcutta 13; 36a, Anna Salai, Mount Road, Madras 2, B-3/7
Asaf Ali Road, New Delhi 1; 80/1 Mahatma Gandhi Road,
Bangalore-560001; 3-5-820 Hyderguda, Hyderabad-500001. Sub-
Depots: Oxford Book & Stationery Co. 17 Park Street, Calcutta
70016; Scmdia House, New Delhi; Publications Section, Ministry
of Education and Social Welfare, 51 1 C-Wmg, Shastn Bhavan,
New Delhi 110001. - INDONESIA. Bhratara Publishers and
Booksellers, 29 Jl.Oto Iskandardmata III, Jakarta; Gramedia
Bookshop, Jl. Gadjah Mada 109, Jakarta; Indira P.T., Jl. Dr
Sam Ratulangie47, Jakarta Pusat. IRAN. Kharazmie Publish
mg and Distribution Co., 28, Vessal Shirazi Street, Shahreza
Avenue, P.O. Box 314/1486, Teheran; Iranian Nat. Comm. for
Unesco, Ave. Iranchahr Chomali No. 300, B P. 1533, Teheran.
IRAQ. McKenzie's Bookshop, AI -Rashid Street, Baghdad.
IRELAND. The Educational Company of Ireland Ltd.,
Ballymount Road, Walkinstown, Dublin 12. ISRAEL.
Emanuel Brown, formerly Blumstem's Book-stores, 35 Allenby
Road and 48 Nachlat Benjamin Street, Tel Aviv; 9, Shlomzion
Hamalka Street, Jerusalem. JAMAICA. Sangster's Book
Stores Ltd., P.O. Box 366, 101 Water Lane, Kingston. -
JAPAN. Eastern Book Service Inc., C.P.O. Box 1728, Tokyo
100-92. - KENYA. East African Publishing House, P.O. Box
30571, Nairobi. KOREA. Korean National Commission for
Unesco, P.O. Box Central 64, Seoul - KUWAIT. The Kuwait
Bookshop Co., Ltd, 2942, Kuwait - LESOTHO. Mazenod Book
Centre, P.O. Mazenod, Lesotho, Southern Africa. LIBERIA.
Cole and Yancy Bookshops Ltd., P.O. Box 286, Monrovia.
LIBYA. Agency for Development of Publication & Distribution,
P.O. Box 34-35, Tripoli. - LUXEMBOURG. Librairie Paul
Brück, 22, Grande-Rue, Luxembourg. - MALAYSIA. Federal
Publications, Lot 8323, Jl 222, Petalmg Jaya, Selangor. -
MALTA. Sapienzas, 26 Republic Street, Valletta.
MAURITIUS. Nalanda Company Ltd., 30, Bourbon Street,
Port-Louis. MONACO. British Library, 30 bd. des Moulins,
Monte-Carlo. - NETHERLANDS. For the "Unesco Koerier"
Dutch edition only: Systemen Keesing, Ruysdaelstraat 71-75,
Amsterdam-1007. Agent for all Unesco publications: N V.
Martinus Nijhoff, Lange Voorhout, 9, The Hague.
NETHERLANDS ANTILLES. G.C.T. Van Dorp & Co. (Ned
Ant.l, N.V., Willemstad, Cura¿ao. N.A. - NEW ZEALAND.
Government Printing Office, Government Bookshops at:
Rutland Street, P.O. Box 5344, Auckland; 130, Oxford Terrace,
P.O. Box 1721 Christ-church; Alma Street, P.O. Box 857
Hamilton; Princes Street, P.O. Box 1104, Dunedin; Mulgrave
Street, Private Bag, Wellington. - NIGERIA. The University
Bookshop of Ife; The University Bookshop of Ibadan, P.O. 286;
The University Bookshop of Nsukka; The University Bookshop
of Lagos;The Ahmadu Bello University Bookshop of Zana.
NORWAY. All publications: Johan Grundt Tanum
(Booksellers!, Karl Johansgate 41/43, Oslo 1. For Unesco
Courier only: A.S. Narvesens Literaturjeneste, Box 6125, Oslo 6.
PAKISTAN. Mirza Book Agency, 65 Sarah Quaid-e-azam,
P.O. Box No. 729, Lahore 3. - PHILIPPINES. The Modern
Book Co., 926 Rizal Avenue, P.O. Box 632, Manila D-404 -
POLAND. Orpan-lmport, Palac Kultury I Nauki, Warsaw; Ars
Polona-Ruch, Krakowskie Przedmiescie No. 7.00-901
WARSAW. - PORTUGAL. Dias & Andrade Ltda, Livrana
Portugal, rua do Carmo 70, Lisbon. SEYCHELLES. New
Service Ltd., Kingsgate House, P.O. Box 131, Mah".
SIERRA LEONE. Fourah Bay, Njala University and Sierra Leone
Diocesan Bookshops, Freetown SINGAPORE. Federal
Publications (S) Pte Ltd., No. 1 New industrial Road, off Upper
Paya Lebar Road, Singapore 19. SOMALI DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC. Modern Book Shop and General, P O. Box 951,
Mogadiscio. SOUTH AFRICA. All publications: Van
Schaik's Book-store (Pty.) Ltd., Libri Building, Church Street,
P.O. Box 924, Pretoria. For the Unesco Courier (single copies!
only: Central News agency, P.O. Box 1033, Johannesburg.
SOUTHERN RHODESIA. Textbook Sales IPVT] Ltd., 67 Union
Avenue, Salisbury. SRI LANKA. Lake House Bookshop, 100
Sir Chittampalam Gardiner Mawata P O.B. 244 Colombo 2.
SUDAN. AI Bashir Bookshop, P.O. Box 1118, Khartoum.
SWEDEN. All publications A/B CE. Fntzes Kungl,
Hovbokhandel, Fredsgatan 2, Box 16356, 10327 Stockholm 16.
For the Unesco Courier: Svenska FN-Forbundet, Skolgránd 2,
Box 150 50 S- 104 65, Stockholm. - SWITZERLAND. All
publications: Europa Verlag, 5 Rámistrasse. Zurich. Librairie
Payot, rue Grenus 6, 1211, Geneva 11, CCP. 12-236.
TANZANIA. Dar-es Salaam Bookshop, P.O.B. 9030 Dar-es-
Salaam. - THAILAND. Nibondh and Co. Ltd., 40-42 Charoen
Krung Road, Siyaeg Phaya Sri, P.O. Box 402, Bangkok:
Suksapan Panit, Mansion 9, Rajdamnern Avenue, Bangkok;
Suksit Siam Company, 1715 Rama IV Road, Bangkok.
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO. National Commission for Unesco,
18 Alexandra Street, St. Clair, Trinidad, W.I. - TURKEY.
Librairie Hachette, 469 Istiklal Caddesi, Beyoglu, Istambul.
UGANDA. Uganda Bookshop, P.O. Box 145, Kampala.
UNITED KINGDOM. H.M. Stationery Office, P.O. Box 569,
London, S E.I., and Government Bookshops in London,
Edinburgh, Cardiff, Belfast, Manchester, Birmingham, Bristol.
- UNITED STATES. Unipub, Box 433 Murray Hill Station,
New York, N.Y. 10016. U.S.S.R. Mezhdunarodnaya Kniga,
Moscow, G-200. YUGOSLAVIA. Jugoslovenska Knjiga, Trg
Republike 5/8, Belgrade; Drzavna Zalozba Slovenje, Titova C 25,
P.O B. 50-1, Ljubljana.

## [Page 36](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/074803engo.pdf#page=36) 0

### UNINDEXED_SUPPLEMENT

MAY 1978
A bulletin published by
the Office
of Public Information
Unesco
7, Place de Fontenoy
75700 Paris, France
fromnews
unesco
International
Anti-Apartheid
Year launched
Some wordless evidence a film m?.de
of still photographs taken by eye¬
witnesses at Soweto; then the quiet voice
of a white newspaper editor telling how
his opposition to apartheid finally drove
him into exile; then a measured account
of some of Unesco's latest steps against
racism; a pledge by the Director-General
that the Organization would employ all
its forces in the struggle; finally Myriam
Makeba singing songs from her South
African homeland. This was how
International Anti-Apartheid Year was
launched at a ceremony at Unesco's
Paris headquarters on March 21,
It was on that day in 1960, Unesco's
Director-General, Mr Amadou Mahtar
M'Bow reminded about 1,500 people
crowded into the Organization's main
conference hall, that 68 Africans had
been killed at Sharpeville. He paid
tribute to those who had fallen "and are
falling at this very moment" so that
human rights should not be a mere
dream.
He went on to define the crime of
apartheid "the vilest form of modern
slavery" in the terms of the 1973
International Convention on the
Elimination of Apartheid: "inhuman
acts aimed at... the domination of one
racial group...;" "deliberately
imposing... living conditions... to bring
about the physical destruction... of one
or several racial groups;" creation of
ghettos, forbidding marriages between
persons of different groups,
expropriation and exploitation.
Apartheid, he said, was turning South
Africa into a huge concentration camp
despite the appeals and condemnations
of the United Nations over 30 years.
The international community had the
duty to meet the challenge: it had the
means, now it must have the real will to
draw the consequences of its resolutions
and, if need be, ensure respect for them
by applying the coercive measures
provided for in the United Nations
Charter.
Unesco had been contributing to the
struggle for years. It was its
denunciation of racism which explained
why South Africa had left the
Organization in 1955. Unesco sought to
make the nature of the evil known, and
its wide programme of actions included
the convening of the international
conference which has just prepared a
draft declaration on race and racial
prejudice. But much remained to be
done and a peaceful mobilization of
public opinion was needed to ensure the
end of this "shame to the whole of
humanity".
Myriam Makeba at Unesco

## [Page 37](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/074803engo.pdf#page=37) 0

### UNINDEXED_SUPPLEMENT

Donald Woods, the editor of the anti-
apartheid newspaper who was placed
under a banning order and then escaped
to fight the system on the international
level, explained why this had happened.
His newspaper had been tolerated as a
showpiece example of South Africa's
free press until he had begun to insist
on an inquest into the death in prison of
his friend, the Black Consciousness
leader Steve Biko. Then he had been
silenced and his usefulness inside South
Africa was at an end.
Black leaders in the country had learned
that attempts at negotiation were not
heeded but he believed that peaceful
international measures could succeed.
Pressure on South Africa should end
only when negotiations with black
leaders had begun. The tide against
apartheid had at last begun to rise.
"Let it come to the full and sweep from
the earth the evil of racial
discrimination," he concluded.
After a message had been read from
Ambassador Leslie Harriman, chairman
of the U.N. Committee Against
Apartheid, H.E. Y. Bamful Turkson,
Ghana's Ambassador to France, who
had chaired the conference to draft the
Declaration on race, gave an account of
the meeting and the round table on
apartheid which had begun the day.
Participants at the round table opened
by the Director-General listed a series of
practical measures to bring pressure to
bear on the Vorster regime: public
information campaigns (especially 24-
- hour-a-day broadcasts beamed at South
Africa), breaking off all economic
relations, universal right of asylum for
refugees and practical assistance to the
thousands who have fled since the
Soweto riots.
Mr Bokwe Mafuna, exiled South
African journalist, said that Black
South Africans were prepared to bear
the consequences of an economic
boycott, while Dr Samuel Cookey,
former education director of the
Commonwealth Secretariat, after
outlining the separate education systems
in South Africa, declared that "The
cornerstone of apartheid is racial
prejudice." "There is no country that
doesn't practise some form of racial
discrimination," he added. The
International Year might be the
occasion to fight racial discrimination
everywhere.
For Mr Naidoo, representative of the
African National Congress, apartheid
might be "racist in form, but its
substance is economic exploitation."
Sharpeville had shut the doors to
peaceful solutions, he said, and "the
institutionalized violence of the Vorster
regime can only be destroyed by
superior force."
Other speakers at the round table
included Mr René Lefort, journalist of
"Le Monde"; Mr José Ingles, Under-
Secretary of Foreign Affairs of the '
Philippines; Mr Fernando Volio, former
Minister of Education of Costa Rica;
Mr Ahmed Derradji, deputy permanent
delegate of Algeria to Unesco and Dr
Walter Poeggel, professor of
international law at Karl Marx
University, Leipzig.
Draft declaration
on race prepared
for General
Conference
By consensus, representatives of 99 of
Unesco's Member States, who had met
in Paris from 13 to 20 March, agreed on
a text for a draft Declaration on Race
and Racial Prejudice which will be
submitted to the Unesco General
Conference this autumn.
The conference, which was chaired by
H.E. Y. Bamful Turkson, Ghana's
Ambassador to France, agreed without
a vote to a text consisting of a Preamble
and ten Articles. The first Article
proclaims that...
"All human beings belong to a single
species and are descended from a
common stock" and are "equal in
dignity and rights". The Article also
asserts the "right to be different" while
insisting that differences in life styles
cannot justify discriminatory practices.
Differences between the achievements of
peoples are "entirely attributable to
geographical, historical, political,
economic, social and cultural factors".
Article II of the draft text lays down
that any theory claiming superiority or
inferiority for any group "has no
scientific foundation and is contrary to
the moral and ethical principles of
humanity", and Article IV specifically
condemns apartheid. This "extreme
form of racism" is branded, along with
genocide, as a "crime against
humanity" which "gravely disturbs
international peace and security."
Other articles assert that distinctions
based on "race, colour, ethnic or
national origin or religious intolerance
motivated by racist considerations" are
incompatible with a just international
order respecting human rights. They
also stress the role of culture and
education in human development and
assert the states' responsibility to
provide education including scientific
and ethical considerations concerning
human unity and diversity.
The mass media are urged to promote
understanding and contribute to the
eradication of racism while taking
account of the principles of the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights,
particularly the principle of freedom of
expression. States are called upon to
supplement laws against discrimination
by administrative machinery to
investigate it and also to take special
measures on behalf of disadvantaged
individuals or groups, while ensuring
thatsthese measures themselves do not
appear to be racially discriminatory.
Migrant workers are singled out for
mention. These should benefit from
measures to assure them security and
respect for their dignity and cultural
values, says the text.
In its last Article, the draft text calls
upon international organizations to
assist in the legitimate struggle against
racism "so that all the peoples of the
world may be forever delivered from
these scourges".
II

## [Page 38](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/074803engo.pdf#page=38) 0

### UNINDEXED_SUPPLEMENT

Journalists say
more news sources
needed to balance
information flow
Are more news sources needed to
improve the balance of the world's
information flow?
Indeed they are, representatives of
leading news agencies, newspapers and
radio and television organizations agreed
in a recent international seminar.
Among other measures they suggested
the creation of additional news agencies
at the national and regional levels,
although some warned that this should
not result in monopoly situations as far
as news collection or dissemination is
concerned.
Held in Stockholm, the seminar was
sponsored jointly by the International
Commission for the Study of
Communication Problems and the
Swedish Government. Created by the
Director-General of Unesco last year,
the 16-member commission is headed by
Nobel and Lenin Peace Prize-winner
Sean MacBride, former U.N. High
Commissioner for Namibia.
Addressing the opening session of the
seminar, Mr MacBride noted that two-
thirds of the world's daily output of
news at present comes directly or
indirectly from New York and that two-
thirds of the major news agencies'
correspondents are based either in North
America or in Europe.
The same theme was echoed by Mr Jan-
Eric Wikström, Swedish Minister of
Education and Cultural affairs. Sweden,
he said, had a long tradition of press
freedom "probably the oldest in the
world" but "when freedom tends to
mean freedom only for the powerful,
the very foundations of liberal press
tradition are threatened and a need for'
balance is created."
Among the news agencies represented at
the seminar were Agence France Presse,
Associated Press, Reuters, TASS and
United Press International, as well as
ANSA (Italy), JANA (Libya),
ANTARA (Indonesia), BERNAMA
(Malaysia), DPA (Federal Republic of
Germany), ADN (German Democratic
Republic), PANA (Iran), IPS (Italy),
Vietnam News Agency, Latin Agency,
Prensa Latina, the agencies of
Ghana, Zaire, Iraq and the Philippines
and the pool of news agencies of the
non-aligned countries. Several regional
federations of news agencies as well as
international professional organizations
also sent delegates and observers.
Several participants urged increased
assistance to national news agencies
from development aid organizations as
well as from the large international news
agencies. They considered that much
greater efforts should be exerted to train
agency and broadcast journalists and
technicians from developing countries,
and that more money should be invested
in new infrastructures. Lower tariff
rates should be obtained for news
transmission, they added, and in order
to achieve this it was proposed that
Unesco and the International
Telecommunication Union (ITU)
convene a special joint conference.
While foreign and visiting
correspondents should have better access
to information sources, they should also
respect the existing laws of the host
countries, it was emphasized. The
problem of the protection of journalists
in the performance of their professional
duties was also examined and it was
suggested that the International
Commission should further study this
matter in consultation with appropriate
professional and legal bodies.
Following the close of the seminar the
Commission met for two days in
Stockholm and hammered out an
outline plan for the drafting of its
interim report which is to be presented
to the Unesco General Conference this
autumn. It also agreed to devote some
time during its next meeting, to be held
in Paris from 10 to 14 July, to a
discussion of a New International
Information Order.
Winners of Unesco
prizes for posters
on right to
education
announced
The winners of Unesco awards for
posters on the right to education were
announced on April 17 when the
Organization's Director-General,
together with Mr Edgar Faure,
President of the International Institute
of Human Rights, inaugurated an
exhibition of designs submitted in an
international competition.
The competition, organized by the
Institute in collaboration with the
International Association of Art,
attracted 395 entries from 32 countries.
An international jury selected a design
by Mr Robert Bigras of Canada for the
first prize of 5,000 French francs. The
3,000-franc second prize went to Mr
Juan Pablo Villar of Cuba and the
third, of 2,000 francs, to Mr Gricha
Gospodinov of Bulgaria. The jury
awarded two honourable mentions,
worth 500 francs each, to Mr Ognion
Dimitrov of Bulgaria and Miss Aysha
Aziz of Pakistan.
Prize-winning poster by Robert
Canada
The posters illustrate the theme of the
Festival of Films on Human Rights
being organized by the International
Institute of Human Rights at Strasbourg
in November. This year the festival will
be devoted to the right to education, the
right which, the Director-General
stressed at the opening ceremony, was
fundamental to the understanding and
promotion of other human rights.
Ill

## [Page 39](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/074803engo.pdf#page=39) 0

### UNINDEXED_SUPPLEMENT

Unesco Clubs decide to form World Federation
Representatives of Unesco Clubs in
more than sixty countries have decided
to establish a world federation of such
organizations. Meeting at Unesco
Headquarters, Paris, in April, they set
up a 12-member preparatory committee
to study how the new coordinating body
could be established.
One of the themes of this first World
Congress of Unesco Clubs was a new
international order in communication.
Among other proposals, the delegates
stressed the need for non-professionals
to be initiated into communication
problems. Several participants urged
that Clubs should be associated with the
work of the International Commission
for the Study of Communication
Problems, sending to it the results of
their own researches.
The second subject for discussion was
human rights and the delegates declared
that they favoured a wide diffusionof
basic texts, including the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights and other
agreements. They called for the
promotion of human rights teaching at
all levels of education and forward-
looking study of new rights such as the
rights to development, to peace, to a
healthy and balanced environment and
the safeguard of mankind's common
heritage.
Inaugurating the Congress, the Director-
General of Unesco, Mr Amadou Mahtar
M'Bow, emphasized that Unesco needed
the constant support of the peoples of
the world to fulfil its mission. He
declared that the 2,500 Unesco Clubs in
75 countries had been "born
spontaneously from the will of men and
women who had faith in Unesco's ideals
and aimed to serve them. They make
known in their village or their town
Unesco's purpose and the ideal which it
embodies, thus helping to create an
awareness of the need for solidarity
which will henceforth link all the people
of the world."
The Congress elected Mr Noboru Ito of
Japan as chairman, and Mr Louis
François of France and Mr Auguste
Gbeuly Tapé of the Ivory Coast as vice-
chairmen.
New $1 million
contribution from
U.S. to Philae
campaign
A new United States contribution of the
equivalent of $1 million in Egyptian
pounds to the project to save the -
temples of the Nile island of Philae was
welcomed by the Executive Committee
of the International Campaign to Save
the Monuments of Nubia which met in
Paris from March 1 to 3.
Philae's monuments, which were due to
be submerged by the waters of the
Aswan High Dam, are being transferred
to the higher-lying isle of Agilkia as the
last phase of the Nubian campaign.
The Executive Committee was informed
that around half the work of re-erection
on Agilkia had already been
accomplished and that a joint team of
divers from the Egyptian Navy and the
British Royal Navy would have
completed the salvage of the completely
submerge'd Diocletian Gate and
Augustus Temple in a few weeks.
Addressing the Committee Unesco
Director-General Mr Amadou Mahtar
M'Bow, welcomed the news that the
operation.would be finished by the
target date in 1979 and said that the
campaign would really be complete
when a museum had been established in
Aswan which told the story of the
achievements of the international effort.
For the Egyptian Government, Dr
Shehata Adam said that the Nubian
campaign exemplified human co¬
operation as never before and that it
was proposed to document this in a
museum to be set up in the dome over
the re-erected Temple of Abu Simbel,
already rescued in the first part of the
campaign.
Noting that international contributions
up to the end of last year totalled nearly
$12.9 million, the Committee urged
Unesco Member States who had pledged
contributions to forward them as soon
as possible.
Agilkia Island where the Philae temples are
being reconstructed
IV

## [Page 40](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/074803engo.pdf#page=40) 0

### IGNORE

India's
mobile crèches
In 1969, the late IVIeera Mahadevan opened a crèche in a tent on a building site in Delhi and
began to lavish love and care on children under three left to fend for themselves while their
mothers worked as labourers. Today, the mobile crèche movement has evolved to cover
not only crèche and nursery services but also elementary classes for children aged between
six and twelve. In the centre shown below, a far cry from the original tent, love is still
lavished on the children and simplicity and economy remain the keynote of the routines
adopted and the equipment and premises used. (See article page 24).
'-*
tm^m
<£&i&. s
J
p]
; wtrwÉtr
*